[Music]
hey everybody today's episode is brought
to you by our very own impact theory
university enjoy the episode
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of conversations with tom i am here with
somebody who's going to help me
ring ring in the uh the new episode here
on this set rachel hollis thank you so
much for joining me and for
helping me smash the bottle of champagne
on this set oh my gosh my pleasure i'm
also glad that you got the memo about
wearing yellow today so we match we're
ready to rock not on purpose but yeah so
i
i read your new book oh did you
you're surprised i didn't know that you
were like get it to me and i was like
i'll get right on that i didn't know
how'd you even get it
they gave me a pdf copy oh wow oh my
gosh okay this is a whole different
conversation then all right well very
exciting so
my question is
i'm going to sum it up in a way that i
think you'll probably disagree with but
this is what it felt like to me okay and
as one of the most upbeat optimistic
people i have ever come across in my
life it is so fun to be around you
because you're so intense in a way that
i resonate with and i know we will talk
about tonight
um
why write a book about dealing with
trauma
right
um so
i
got into quarantine uh beginning or
maybe second week in march we went into
quarantine we shot
we had the company everyone go virtual
and um
that first i want to say 10 days i
really freaked out i think
most of us were freaking out
all around the world
as an entrepreneur as an entrepreneur
yeah so
our business
the largest part of our revenue comes
from our live events and i had no idea
when that would happen again and
i have 60 employees who
right it's big
who you know pay bills and and the
reason i freaked out when i first went
into quarantine is because i knew
so i've been an entrepreneur for 17
years
and that means that i
held a company together through wait
and
i it was like a visceral like i
remembered it so fast and it was like
okay here we go again
and the first you know couple weeks i
freaked out and i drank too much vodka
which is an old coping mechanism of mine
um and
then you hit that moment where you're
like okay
get your [__] together look there is no
other way you've got to figure this out
and as i was in that mode of truly like
save my company save these people's jobs
um
i
was editing
the book i had already written so i
wrote a book called girl what the health
which was all about women and body image
and the way that we had talked about
right so that's what i thought that's
what was going to be this book to work
and i was like whoa whoa whoa how the
hell did she write another book that
fast right so
i
um i just it just felt i started editing
it and i was like this is wrong and so
that book is written with my typically
my non-fiction books there's a lot of
humor it's very irreverent i'm talking
about silly things i want to make you
laugh so that maybe you're better able
to receive
some bigger conversation and it just
felt so
tone deaf yeah and i was like i can't do
this
now the interesting thing about this
time period is
i've lived through a lot of really
shitty things unfortunately and i was
like there are some things i know about
how to navigate this time
i know that it's going to get better
someday
and i know it's going to be brutal in
the meantime like just because you have
hope that tomorrow will be better
doesn't mean that you're not self-aware
enough to understand that like every day
between now and then may be awful
so um
i started thinking about what would i
want to say if i could say anything in
this time is this like march this is
march yeah
and
there is a part of me
if i'm being honest as an author i've
always wanted to write a crash book
do you know crash no so a crash book if
you've ever seen um the best example i
can think of which is sounds terrible is
like you see a celebrity die
and then it seems like a month later
there's a book on the show and you're
like how in the world did they do that
it's called a crash book they wrote it
really fast they rushed it through the
publishing process they crashed it
and i as i started to think about what i
would want to write i reached out to my
editor and i said
i feel like i need to write something
for where we are now
and naively
i was like i feel like i need something
for her meaning my reader i need
something for her to read
when
this is over in a couple months
which is so dumb uh but everybody was
thinking it was weeks though back in
march right like this is going to be a
couple years yeah this is like a while
yeah we've got two to three weeks like
and then i was like okay maybe it's
gonna be a month or two like this could
be crazy
so that wasn't it was actually
i would say unusual that you had the
foresight to see that this is going to
be longer than just a couple of weeks
back then because that was the other
thing i was like whoa to commit to a
book that is so clearly of the moment
when you don't know we could be out of
quarantine by the time this hits
and then it would almost seem
like passe you know what's interesting
is i didn't know when we would be out of
quarantine
but i'm wise enough to understand
how much this will devastate our economy
for years
and so i actually wasn't even really
writing
for people i didn't it wasn't like oh
i don't know when quarantine ends it was
it doesn't matter as you and i sit here
right now if quarantine ended like if it
ended tomorrow if we had the answer
tomorrow our economy is still [__] for
years to come because of what's happened
and
you and i are both
really [__] lucky and really [__]
blessed
and
there are a lot of people who are
don't know how they're paying rent this
month who lost their job who got
furloughed their partner lost like i
just i could see like what this was
going to be and i thought is there
something that i could create that would
maybe be helpful
and i started
to write it and um
it's not i mean you know if you read it
it's not my normal tone
um it's still it's still i try it is
very clearly a rachel hollis book i hope
so for sure yeah they were like could
you just add like one joke in the
editing process
because i still wanted it to be hopeful
and i still wanted to hopefully
illustrate things in a way that people
could hear but you're talking about
crisis you know the world has gone
through this massive crisis and for many
people they're experiencing loss or it
could be traumatic the ptsd that comes
out of this for our healthcare workers
like i i can't even we can't even fathom
what this is going to be
um and i don't say that i'm not you know
me i'm not a pessimistic person but i do
think
that this will have
far-reaching ramifications i'm like
crazy optimistic almost pathologically
optimistic i found one by temperament i
am that way and then two it just as an
entrepreneur you have to find that gear
otherwise you'll never take the chances
that you need to grow and so when i was
the one saying to the team guys this
could get really bad like
and i've often
said this is like the economy's
essentially been shot it's a person
who's been shot and they're bleeding out
nobody knows how serious it is yet
because you're looking at them and they
seem fine or um do you know what a space
case is no i can't believe this [__] is
real this is the craziest thing ever so
there did you see the m night shyamalan
movie oh god the one with mel gibson
signs
one of the most terrifying movies okay
in my life i'm terrified of aliens we
should circle back we should circle back
but his wife in that that is it's based
on a real thing it's called a space case
so somebody that they've been pinned
against something but their lower half
has been severed so they they are going
to die right but because the blood is
basically crimped yes they can't bleed
out right but the second you pull that
vehicle back
once it tells them
phoenix to swing away correct right so
it is
i was in a writing class and there was a
guy that wrote he was an emt and he
wrote a story and it was funny because
everyone's criticism was that's so fake
no one would ever like you can't do that
and he was like i'm a [__] emt i'm
telling you i actually this was he goes
this was basically a documentary what i
wrote he was like i did not exaggerate
it was like i changed the dialogue
obviously
but he was like this really happens so
i'm like this what we're going through
right now is a space case where the
economy has been hit so hard but with
like the
government subsidies and stuff like
everything hey it seems fine but i'm
like i don't know what's going to happen
right when you back that vehicle up
it's like
uh it
i'm thinking of
in my hometown
you know my dad owns a business in in my
hometown and
has managed to still
barely
stay alive you know had that thing where
you're paying the lease for the for the
business that you can't go into and
i was talking to him the other day and
he's so
angry because that's how my dad
expresses
emotion so angry but what it is is
sadness of
these restaurants i come from a small
town so these restaurants that have been
in our town for 50 years like family and
businesses and he's naming them and
they're famous where i come from and
they're gone
um there's a a really famous place in
austin
called shady grove that had the same
kind of thing had been around forever
and everybody loved it it's like this
beloved thing and it's gone
and
there i mean there's just
there's a loss
in in a bunch of different ways
um and yeah i still think there's beauty
in this time and i think that there's
goodness you know me like i'm gonna look
for how is this for us and all that but
that's what started the process was like
i just i think i want to write something
that meets my reader where they're at
typically i think i'm writing to try and
hopefully guide you somewhere
and in this instance i was like nah i'm
coming to you
let's let's walk through this thing
together because this is it's going to
be hard
and
you can numb out and you can you know
watch tick tock or
stream netflix forever
but you're eventually going to come back
to the reality that is and that's hard
and so how do we get through it so
that's where the idea came from it's
interesting what's
fascinating is of course the timing then
of your divorce right and the bizarre
sort of
cynical voice that has raised its head
which there's no well i guess the book
hasn't come out yet yeah so there's no
way that they've read it yeah so once
you read it it's like it's clearly not a
book about your divorce your course is
mentioned because you were editing when
you were going through it but um
i felt like i had to like i felt like i
had to mention that i had to say it yeah
you know super [__] right and my
audience knows me and i have talked
about everything it's a big part of my
platform is to be honest about where i'm
at and what i've gone through and i
thought like this is
crazy you know there's like a full-on
the editor and the publisher and
everyone gets on the phone like hey
you have to address this
and that felt
like i wanted to puke like i how do you
write about something that you're
drowning inside of
um
i've never heard that phrase before
right from your scars yeah
and i don't know i mean i i looked it up
when i was trying to reference it in the
book and it's attributed to a lot of
different people but the idea is that
you're never supposed to teach from
your open wounds you're supposed to
teach from scars you're supposed to
teach from places that have healed over
that you've done the work on so you can
say like back then this was something
that i struggled with
if you are teaching from an open wound
like a current pain in your life
number one you don't even know how
you're gonna feel about that
five years from now and also it's being
colored by emotion and so
it doesn't really feel fair to be
teaching anyone anything do you feel
like you taught around your divorce
though in the book it didn't feel that
way to me i no i and i didn't want to i
only wanted to um
the book starts there like this is what
happened because i needed to explain
that i wrote the entire book
and then in the editing process
i was in the midst of a breakup and so
the first pass was very much what you
would normally get for me like coach and
teacher and whatever and then in in an
edit it changed and it became more
nuanced and
i'm was in so much more pain
trying to write this thing um
and it's really weird too i'll tell you
like i started doing um press
last week i want to say and i had the
very first call i wanna like people and
i mean that's a big get and as an author
like that's the kind of thing you dream
of you know having people magazine care
about your book
and i got off that call and i was like
oh my god
i'm to have to have this conversation
a hundred times
right
and
that everybody starts there what's going
on how are you doing how are the kids
how you know and she's like oh my god
this is
um
it's already hard enough
and i'm also navigating
really deeply caring about being
respectful of him
you know and if you if one person then
is the only one who's sort of being
asked these things that also doesn't
feel fair and so
it's just like it's a big
[__] like this is all
i was driving over here today and i was
like this is a wild time to be sitting
down with tom
right and i thought
like i almost text you and just said
like i don't even want to record a show
i just like want to sit with my friends
and talk about all the things
no that's why we were talking before we
started rolling about this this setup
feels too much like we're on a set right
and
it
the goal of this show for sure is is
exactly that and
i know like one getting a chance to talk
to people that have a very similar life
to you is there's so much joy and like
oh my god only you are going to
this very weird thing which is actually
something i found really interesting
about the book was
in the way that you share in the way
that you talk about everything it does
feel like somebody who's not trying to
preach or anything just like hey i've
i will say that the book had a sense of
speaking from the scar and not from the
wound but it was like look i've been
through this thing it's [__] gnarly
i've been through something like this um
and just
i don't know and that's your normal
style is to sort of walk people through
but when i think about
what the promo tour for this book is
going to be like
the danger i think for you is the way
that when people ask you the same
question you get you develop a loop
and for something that's so live that
you're going through right now to become
a loop right is [__] risky when you
need to process through and figure out
like what the [__] is actually
going on absolutely
and
and then yeah and then things people
take sort of snippets instead of the
full context of what you said and
it just kind of
is i feel like i've hit a place in my
life and career where
i have learned
like if i care
so much about
how i am received
i would stop doing anything at all right
like the [__] though for real for real
how do you deal with that [__] so when
you mention in the book because this is
exactly what it is for me as i was
getting bigger i read every [__]
comment it was awesome it was a love
fest and i used to tell people go look
at our comments youtube is known for
like these crazy [__] vitriolic
bitter comments and our comments are
loving and it's uplifting and they're
connecting with each other so great and
then we hit a million and [__]
lost their mind and it it devolved into
the standard right stuff and so i was
just like cool i i will put my thing out
i will do my best to like
bring value and then it is what it is
once it hits the world but then people
say [__] like [__] man
i'm so sorry for what they're saying
about you on facebook and you're like
what the [__] are they saying like i was
fine don't send me that text i actually
had to this like
probably three or four months ago i sent
a group text to all of my closest
friends and i said
i so appreciate and love you
i do not consume comments on social
media
when people say awful things i don't
know the tree is falling in the forest i
am not around to hear it
until you
send me a text and say the thing goes
worse than like oh no what they're
saying about you on social is people
who'll send a text and be like hey girl
thinking about you and i'm like oh no
now they're saying without saying right
um so i really truly don't consume it
i do um the absolute best thing and i
hate to even say this because i'm gonna
like give um
attention to it but
this is really funny and i will tell you
that i have laughed
like uproariously
crying laughter so many times
in the last six months at how awful life
is like it's just so hard that i'm gonna
i have to laugh or i'm gonna cry
and i had this day it was our fir first
or maybe second um
divorce meeting which is number one in
this world you do that on zoom
oh um so we're doing something called a
collaborative divorce which is the best
possible thing you can do if you have
kids
so our attorneys work together and then
we have like a mediator a financial
mediator a like a
therapist like it's a whole group thing
right
but even then
those are really hard meetings and
they're much better now but at the very
beginning
it was [__] brutal like
just the worst two hours ever just awful
and um
i get off this call and they had told me
in advance they said
you know make sure you block out about
90 minutes after these calls which is
like good grief like do you know how
much time divorce takes like two hours
for the meeting plus 90 minutes because
they were like you are not going to be
in a place where you can go have a
meeting right after this and i was like
calm down we're fine like we're no
they're 100
right
and so i get off i get off this zoom
call and i'm just like
a mess a puddle a like devastated
and
i think
i'm like i need something like i i need
i need to hear a motivational speech i
need something that and then i thought i
wonder if anybody has ever created
videos on youtube for people who are
going through divorce
they're awful by the way
um but i thought maybe there's something
on youtube i could find
that would um
just you know hey if you're going
through divorce like it's tom bill you
being like listen [__] you're
going to survive right that's what i
mean next time i'll just call you be
like tom tape this for me um but i go on
youtube to look and i like can't i'm
like well i'm like these are terrible
terrible
and then youtube suggests
a video that's something like
all of the reasons why rachel hollis
is awful
lovely
and it has
hundreds of thousands of views
yeah and i'm like yeah it's recommended
to me
and i'm like oh
wow
and at that moment you have to laugh now
i'm not i don't know what it was i'm not
going to watch that i'm sure there's
tons of stuff like that on the internet
but in that moment
i
it's like
you're just like i'm already on the
ground like i can't take any more kicks
and incidentally i
um because i want to like you know me
and i want to like bring this story back
up because that's just the worst
um
i had an appointment i think later that
day or maybe the next day i
this is very hippie of me tom but i
started seeing an energy healer oh [__]
oh my [__] god like if you
come to austin someday when the world is
good again
um
i you have to
what do they do
it's like nothing i've ever experienced
and everything that i'm about to say
defies
anything a preacher's daughter would
ever have been allowed to think was okay
um but she
i say energy healing but she doesn't
it's not like reiki she doesn't use her
hands or anything like i would be like
laying there on the bed or whatever and
then she's sitting in a chair and you're
talking through
she'll be like it's a therapist
no
no okay it's a healer i don't so
literally you're sitting there and
she'll just be like
what happened when you were six
really i can't even do this and she's
saying like i'm seeing energy coming off
of her 100 she like literally she's like
counting like she's one two three
six
what happened when you were six
and i swear to you 10 i've sent
so many friends employees like so many
people to her none of us have the same
story none of us have the same
experience everybody bawls their
eyeballs out do you know what cold
reading is no
i actually considered getting really
good at this so there was a period in my
life where i got really into magic
and i'm not surprised as i got into
magic i got really into mentalism okay
and
mentalism is
[__] extraordinary yes and there were
these two mentalists that were so good
one of them's his stage name anyway is
banach i forget what his real name is
but
they went to these university professors
and convinced them that they had real
psychic abilities so imagine they have
set up a real test to see if psychic
abilities are real okay these guys are
so good at mentalism that they were able
which is all mad it's magic in that it's
fake it's it is all just they figure
[__] out they know how to read people
all that that's
wild a mentalist before and it tripped
me it's [__] incredible i didn't know
it was fake though i literally thought
they were psychic all fake all fake all
fake all fake so
cold reading is the ability to if you i
know you've seen ghosts because you
mentioned it in the book yep so odamae
yes yes yes yes doing cold reading
right so she's like seeing she's like
vibing out like
and you pick up on things and you
suggest something right it's like
tell me about when you were sick no
seven right you know because you didn't
react to six but you do react to seven
so then they're like ah okay well so
what is
wild is that it's like
first of all i'm not even looking at her
so i'm like laying on a bed i'm looking
at the ceiling or whatever and she'll
say like what happened at six and what's
amazing is like
it's therapy
because whatever you're about to say
is what you needed to talk about right
and
she doesn't
then supply like oh it's this or she's
not saying like oh your
great-grandfather's here and he's coming
back from the whatever she's like
what happened at six and what i found
was every age that she would talk
through my first instinct would be like
nothing
and i think most of us some girlfriends
have similar stories to me
so if you have trauma in your childhood
i know very specifically if i go see a
psychic if i'm doing an energy healing
what i assume she's going to say is what
happened at 14 which is when my brother
died
that's not a conversation we have so
it's like what happened at six and then
you're like oh
nothing i i mean i guess i'm going into
ah yes that was um like first grade and
then i'm
and
i start talking and
i'm not i am not a motive with people i
do not know like i don't i feel there's
a handful of people that i feel
where i would feel comfortable being
emotional or breaking down crying
whatever and that was the first question
she asked me
and
i'm like well that was when
um
and i'm realizing oh that's when our
family lived out in the country
and
this sounds like so silly if you know
the town i grew up in but like we moved
to the big city
so we moved from like out out in the
country to still pretty picky but like
the big city for us right and it was
better schools and there was like a
million reasons why my parents made the
choice
but
she said what happened when you're six
and i said oh that's when we moved and
i'm tired i'm like and we moved away
from grandma and grandpa and we and i'm
like saying and i just start sobbing
and
like i it never
i didn't know that that was
something that i had carried as upset
and of course it did because i was so
close to my grandparents and all our
family was there we had land and like
you run and play and now i'm living in a
cul-de-sac with like track houses and
like all of these things that i
lost
and
it was this
incredible experience so you do this
with different ages of your life
but
she says
all right
your subconscious
does not know the difference between
what
really happened
and what you imagine
and so what i want you to do right now
is i want you to imagine that you 37
year old rachel mother of four
is with six-year-old baby rage
what do you need to show her
like what could you show the sexual
version of you
that would
heal
this thing that feels painful
and with this process i've learned that
like whatever the first thing that pops
into your head it like it starts to just
come from a like not conscious place
and i had just moved into
my new house and it was totally empty
you know trying to move in covid no
furniture sleeping on the floor the
whole thing which had been this
pretty um
felt pretty traumatic
which is a whole other thing to just
like move out of your house and like not
have anywhere for your kids to sit down
and like is a whole thing
um
but she said what do you need to show
six-year-old you
and i'm like
bawling and i'm like
we got back to the country
because i live out in texas in the
country right
and
that i don't know any other thing to
call it except an energy healing she's
not sort of like touching you or
whatever but it's like six months of
therapy in an hour
and
it's beautiful because
it's just stuff you want to talk about
right she's not like
you know being like the psychic and
in code it's interesting because
that that is
and i'll give her all the benefit of
like it is she comes from a beautiful
place and i'm not impugning any negative
emotions whatsoever right but that's
like cold reading at its finest in terms
of asking an open-ended question right
and then at first you're like nothing
well actually and then you find this
thing too right to give meaning to which
feels to me like i'm
so fine with like if it really is
like intuition because i also think i
know i can do this with you know have
done it at events and i was like don't
you feel like you could you do that with
people
not cold reading
but definitely you can sort of see like
you you do an example in your book of
when you said oh i wish i had said this
is a couple and you go into like a ton
of detail about what you were saying and
i was like i know exactly what you're
talking about you're picking up on cues
the way they say something the way they
look at each other the distance they
keep all right 100 okay i would be able
to read the situation
yeah for sure yeah so i feel like i
can do that with people and i just
assume it's because i listen to my
intuition and i feel like i talk to
people so much i define intuition for me
this is something my wife is writing a
story right now called wish academy
shout out to my wife and her first
fiction piece yes girl and
in it that they're dealing with like
superpowers kind of superpowers and
there was this whole argument because
the girl's superpower is intuition and i
said intuition's not a thing intuition
is situationally dependent so you have
psychic ability so check it out i will
prove it to you it's what i call the
basketball problem which how [__]
ironic since in your book for some weird
ass reason you go into this whole thing
about basketball even though i don't
know anything about [__] all about
basketball but here it is
uh the basketball problem which is
totally randomly named is if i once
played a pickup game of basketball with
a former nba player okay and it was so
hilarious i was laughing so hard because
he'd be like you're about to go left and
i couldn't stop myself he was right i
was gonna go left he's like you're gonna
shoot over here and he would step before
i would step and he just put his hand up
and i'd hit it with the ball he would
call [__] it was [__] hilarious and
at the end of the game i'm like how like
were you just mind tricking me and by
saying you made me do it and he's like
no no all has to do with the position of
your feet he said when you play as much
as i have played you watch as much tape
as i have watched you don't even have to
like really look and chest they call it
chunking grand masters in chess can look
at a board and tell you where the game
is at not because they're looking at
individual individual pieces they can
take a whole board at once they've just
played so much
that's intuition it's [__] trained
but it is really specific to a given
arena you're inhumanly good with people
because you've spent so much time one
you probably have just a disposition for
it yeah you're empathetic you're
self-aware and then on top of that you
[__] trained the life out of it you
were a party planner you did hundreds of
weddings dealing with rides like the
number of things that you would do to
learn how to right because i don't have
intuition about dogs correct and that
was my thing if you take that basketball
player and then put them into dolphin
training right they're not gonna know
what the [__] is up they're gonna have
zero intuition
it's no less powerful but it's just when
you understand you're not
intuition is not some god-given thing
you [__] train the [__] out of it so
if you want to get intuition you can but
you're gonna have to clock the hours in
something very specific
which to me is your whole message is
like right hey girl you might be stuck
now but you don't have to be stuck
forever absolutely so i mean that's
really interesting because i feel like
i would describe it as
you get this feeling you get this you
know this that like you meet a person
and everybody loves this person you're
like that that per that guy's a
sleazeball like i don't know what it is
it comes as a feeling
please tell me so the subconscious
is faster and vaster as i say
subconscious like your conscious mind
can handle something like
17 variables right so it's like how are
they holding their possible clothes are
they wearing the shape of their face the
style of their hair like you get a what
they call a thin slice on somebody but
the subconscious can process an inhuman
amount of data very rapidly like what
you see is actually the number of
photons reflecting off of a surface in a
given wavelength but you don't take it
like that you just [__] see stuff
right you can navigate the world you
don't bump into too much [__] you can
relate to somebody you sort of know how
they're feeling all that so
your subconscious mind can't talk to you
in conscious language so the language of
the subconscious is emotion yeah so
whether you should run from the [__]
tiger doesn't come as like oh i should
probably run i think it's about to
attack me you're just like [__] yeah and
you bolt
and so it's the only way for you to
process that massive amount of
information very very quickly this is
wild
to consider that you could have like i
obviously we all know about 10 000 hours
and like you could become an expert and
blah blah but i've never thought that
you could train
to have intuition in another category
100 that is
really fascinating
and because there's enough of it that's
sort of pre-programmed people do think
like oh this person like they're
intuitive there's something magical
right but once you pull it out of the
magical realm and maybe they really do
have like for me and clearly for you
verbal ability is a thing right and you
had to train and i've heard you talk
about how terrified you used to be and
you gave a speech but you [__] did it
yep and i'm gonna guess if i put another
person randomly selected maybe you get a
1.3 x return in your time and they get a
point seven which is right they can get
better i see but like you may just have
a bigger like
ability in that thing
right so jordan versus me we could train
the same number of hours with the same
person and just one he's taller bigger
hands like there's just certain
advantages that he has do you think that
every person
has something
you want me to be motivational right now
or you want me to be real real
this is conversations with tom there are
some people that do not meet minimum
requirements no what do you mean by
minimum requirements the us army will
define it as an 83 iq or higher if you
have an 83 iq you can figure something
out you are worth the time and the
energy you'll get good at something if
you're below 83 no matter how many times
they teach you you actually take take up
more energy than you can give so every
unit of energy put into you you suck
away 1.1 units of energy so it's a
losing endeavor to try to work with that
person wow i can't tell you how much it
[__] pains me which is why i almost
never talk about it the fact that some
people really don't meet minimum
requirements anybody watching this that
can navigate youtube
it's like they are fine so i i don't
even like to think about that so i'll
say
because people are
the number of people watching this that
think oh my god maybe i fall below
minimum requirements and i promise you
they do not
is it's just ridiculous right so i i
don't spend a lot of time there but no i
don't think everybody has something but
i think because we're all like in a
video game since i know your kids play
fortnite yes they do in fortnight you
don't get to pick your stats but in some
games you do and you can apply like to
their intelligence or their speed
mobility like whatever
humans are like that we all have just a
different stat sheet
and so if you happen to also love
something that lines up with one of your
higher stats that's a good place to be
and
finding that like for me finding
something
like leadership
in a company where i could leverage my
ability to communicate that was very
powerful
and so when i clicked onto that and
thought oh okay this is a a way for me
to use this that's been really
advantageous when i decided to step in
front of a camera that was very
conscious i was like i am good at
anything that involves verbal ability
i should give this a shot and see if i
can make it work
um so when you can align those things i
think it's super super powerful uh
i'm jumping because you mentioned
uh games yes and one of the things i
wanted to talk to you about is have you
read irresistible no tell me more so i
kept hearing rogan talk about this and
it i
gosh it's a so i i should have brought
it because it's in the hotel room right
now um
it's all about technology
and how technology is built to addict us
oh yes um so you know have you seen the
social dilemma i have not what i need to
like send you
here i mean okay
so um
i think like a few weeks ago a new
documentary came out on netflix called
the social dilemma
about social media yep and everybody
needs to watch it especially if you have
kids i want to like look in the camera
um
because
it is so [__] up
and about how this [__] draws you in
like
what's so fascinating about it is that
they are interviewing
like employee four at facebook the guy
who invented the like button the guy who
invented endless scrolls so they're
invent they're interviewing the
inventors of social media who are now
grappling with the fact that they have
created frankenstein yeah and
never i love documentary film it's like
my favorite category i've never seen a
documentary
where as it was explaining it i was like
oh that's literally happened to me
and
how fascinating it is that it's it's all
controlled like i know this sounds so
dumb
but i never
really understood that not one of us is
consuming the same social media crazy
and like there's this part in the
documentary where they go on google
google which i think of as like this
you know encyclopedia that's universal
it's universal you see what it is 100
so they go on to google and they type in
climate change is
and depending on where you live in the
world it says climate change is real
climate change is happening and then in
a different area it's like climate
change is a lie climate change is a hoax
climate change is
it's terrifying you really want to [__]
yourself up yes over time it will begin
to tell you what you want to hear right
that's what [__] freaks me out right
because i see this all the time because
when i start researching somebody for an
interview all of a sudden my feed is all
that personal
and so if you start looking at anything
climate change climate and you start is
climate change [__] climate change
is [__] right and you look up an
influencer who says climate change
[__] now all of a sudden google goes
all right they just want to see stuff
about how climate change is [__]
cool here you go and so now you get in
these death spirals right of like you
only hear your side right take on the
others and this is why we have uh i
don't know what it's like in other
countries but here in the u.s it's so
incredibly divisive
you know there was a time i was talking
to someone about this the other day like
when i was a little girl
i grew up in a really homogenous town
everybody was republican everybody like
christian white republican whatever
but
i say everyone and then this is gonna
make that untrue
but
you still
had the democrats over for dinner and
just for clarity's sake i feel it feels
very i'm the most liberal person on the
planet just want to be really clear
that's worth looking in the camera for
um
but
my parents still had
friends who didn't vote like them who
were in different religions who and it
would you you just you had
it was
maybe you talk about politics if you
wanted like a
a debate if you were into it or hey this
is going to be a table where we don't
talk about politics religion or money
because we're going to be whatever but
you always were allowed to co-exist and
now we live in this world where if you
don't if you're not exactly like me
then i have to hate you i have to attack
you and tear you down and whatever
and i feel like most of us have seen
this over the last couple years and
we're all going what's going on and if
you watch that documentary you're like
oh this is what's going on
because
the
they are showing
you know me as a liberal
the absolute worst of the right wing and
they are showing right wing the absolute
worst of the liberals so we're like oh
my they're over there clubbing baby
seals tom we gotta we gotta vote this
out they're gonna they're gonna burn
down the world when it's all it's wild
so social dilemma you have to watch that
one
irresistible is the book which is more
specifically about technology and he
goes into
he digs a lot into addiction what causes
an addiction
and the one the reason i thought of
gaming is they're talking about world of
warcraft which is notoriously i did not
know this but is notoriously like
their people are like living in rehab
centers do you know this i didn't know
they lived in rehab centers for that
game but i knew that it sucked people's
lives yeah so it's the most addictive
video game in the world according to
this book and it lists the reasons why
so it goes through like this is what
causes an addiction and this is what it
is about this game that makes like
the apparently the joke with parents is
like this is like the heroine of video
games like you never let your kids touch
this game
right not even once um
so i thought that was super fascinating
i feel like you would love that book
but um
oh there's a very specific part okay so
this is my question for you i almost
text you i was like no let's have this
conversation on camera
do you feel like it's possible
to get addicted
to something that is good for you
and if so how do you hack that
so in the book he describes addiction
he's basically saying like there are
very specific factors that contribute to
addiction
like true addictive behavior
and
there he's talking to a scientist who
says
i could kidnap you tom and i could tie
you up and i could inject heroin into
you every day
for six months rather you didn't right
yes
but if you
were to get away from that environment
you aren't you absolutely you would have
to detox from what just happened to you
but it's not an addiction unless you
start doing it to yourself
so i'm i'm gonna
butcher this but it's basically like
it can only become an addiction
if it is helping you
to
numb
something painful right
and then i was like okay well people do
get addicted to good things but is there
a way
to
decide like
i'm gonna get addicted to
working out running whatever
do something that
could be good for me though i suppose if
you are truly addicted to it it the
whole point of is that it's going to
become bad but could you hack
that have you ever thought about this
like how do you hack it and you
certainly can't now whether to truly
answer your question we'd have to really
define addiction so if you define
addiction as something that you do even
though it's destroying your life which
is sort of the generally accepted answer
then i would say you can it's
um it then sort of defeats your question
though right it's no longer good for you
but so let me twist it then instead of
saying addiction
how do you
make yourself crave yes yes now you're
now you're playing my game over here
how do you make yourself crave
doing a thing you know you should be
doing yes but you
currently don't like doing it so i've
been asked this question before and i've
actually lived the answer okay so
if you said hey
you've got this person some part of
their life is out of control and you
absolutely have to get them of your own
volition like they say you can lead a
horse of water but you can't make them
drink so you're better off just trying
to make them thirsty
and so the question is how do you make
somebody thirsty and the way that you
make somebody like really [__]
thirsty like if i had somebody i would
take them put them on a desert island
with people that are amazing at whatever
their thing is that they're trying so
let's say that they're obese and they
really want to shake that and they want
to get into amazing shape but they've
struggled they've yo-yo dieted their
whole life
put them on an island let them have
access to the worst [__] food
imaginable so on the desert island
they've just ding dongs
cakes pies candy anything they want
but the only other people on that island
are the hardest core [__] ever
and those guys all act and think alike
and now as a social creature i promise
you
in a very short timeline that person
will want the approval of that group to
the point where they will immediately
fall in line with what they're doing as
long as what they're doing actually adds
benefit so because working out eating
right actually does make you feel better
that [__] would get in line so
[__] fast because we want the
admiration this this is why it is as a
social animal it is so [__] sinister
what happens with social media and the
reason that i can't go [__] with
comments i'm not a guy who's like that i
care deeply about what other people
think and it's easy for me to get out of
that but i'm a [__] social animal and
so when i see a video against me with a
hundred thousand views
right now you've got the mechanisms to
deal with and all that but anyway we all
have it we all have that hardwired
programming so if we're 50
hardwired and we're 50 malleable the 50
that's [__] hardwired is going to
suck even though the malleable part goes
and look you can't take it seriously
they're all dealing with their own pain
somebody that would lash out at you like
that is going through something so
gnarly that you should probably feel bad
for them rather than be wounded by what
they say right cool i know how to cope
with it but it's still not fun right so
as leveraging that innate driver that i
know everyone has to get the admiration
of the group
when they have nowhere else to go of
people that are dragging them down other
people that have all the negative
behaviors and they're celebrating them
for that all that um
that will work not
90 of the time not 99 of the time that
will work 100 of the time and how did
you live this because that's exactly
what happened to me as a budding
entrepreneur so you have this guy he's a
filmmaker's teaching film happens to run
into these two entrepreneurs uh very
successful guys and i'm condensing a
very long time yeah and they say you're
coming to the world with your hand out
if you want to control the art you have
to control the resources come with us
and get rich
yay that sounds amazing i think it's
going to take 18 months
i get into that environment and they
were making fun of me so one i thought
they were amazing so it starts with that
i i was enamored with what they'd
accomplished in life they were jacked at
a time when i had zero muscle mass they
were rich and successful and i was just
like oh my god these guys are [__]
and they were smart so i was like
they're [__] amazing so i wanted
their admiration and then they would
tease me how [__] slow do you walk
how long does it take you to get out of
a car you guys are
still [__] people can you believe
this [__] guy
this is crazy this is crazy wait you
have to you have to tell this story it
used to time oh
not even time you were racing
so you would you would walk into the
bathroom you were unzipping as you got
to the stall you're trying to relax your
bladder so that you didn't pee on your
jeans but there wasn't even a moment's
hesitation because you don't want to
waste any time because you so here's
what it really came down to this is true
you can tell how many successful patents
are filed in a city right by the rate at
which people walk 20 yards on the side
okay wait say this again you've told me
this the rate that people walk a 20-yard
distance on the sidewalk is directly
correlated to the number of successful
patents filed in that same area
there is something to speeding up your
life and i can feel it happen like even
right now i can feel i'm now thinking
faster because we're really on something
that we're crying right and
when you live in that zone as much as
you can which is why you're one of my
favorite [__] human beings and it's a
part we we have to talk about people
don't get a
they don't see the side you don't big up
this side of you like just the [__]
die hard entrepreneur that you are and
when we're in a yurt right and we're
[__] talking crazy [__] about like
what we're gonna build about that
it's awesome to see that side of you so
there is just something to speeding up
wanting more going for it and if you can
love the process like to not feel the
tyranny of having to pee fast which is
what people hear when i tell the story
but instead it's like this a brotherhood
like i had never experienced something
exciting so fun and just our our playing
football in the front yard was things
like how fast can you walk how quickly
can you get out of the car can you pee
faster than the other guy how quickly
can you eat your meal and get back to
work it was fun and we were having such
a good time but we were also building
businesses and it just so happened that
you were able to leverage that intensity
that joy for life but that intensity
getting better at something always
pushing yourself like every morning i
just started this recently but every
morning now i do breath work and i'm
trying to extend the length of time that
i can go on only five breaths
that is so fun it's only fun though
because i get it like go longer right
and longer and like push it and i track
my times and i see how it's like you
know going and i'm getting better at
something but because skills stack when
you get better at something and then you
get better at something else and you get
better at something else and better at
something else all of a sudden you look
over your shoulder and it's like where
the [__] did everybody go right because
they didn't get excited about walking
faster getting out of the car faster
peeing faster
and so they never like made these
demands in themselves right
so when you
get in that group of people you admire
and you want to impress and they're
doing things that are actually
beneficial to you and that was the other
thing they worked out they ate right so
i started going to the gym hardcore i
started eating right and it just
completely changed my life and it was
amazing and that's why at impact theory
i'm so diehard about the
culture and we have a cultured document
that you have to acknowledge when you
sign your thing to be a part of the
company and it's basically like we only
want the hardest core [__] ever
and if that's not you fair enough but
this is not the company for you right do
you
lose people in the process because of
that
which is good which is because you're
like beyond yes you're good you opt
yourself out of this that's so good i
was wondering too as you were saying
that i was also thinking like
this idea of you put yourself into
community
or if you put yourself into community
with people that you admire and you will
make that switch and as you're talking
i'm like i can see how i've done that in
my life but i was also thinking
what you had to were you had rules
so they were like stupid rules you all
made up how fast can you whip it out so
you can pee right but you had rules yep
and you had competition yeah
so have you ever broken it down to see
if there was more than just
the community of course this was the
book that i was writing and have since
abandoned why
all ye give up hope or whatever the
phrase is yes um i
i will not
regret on my deathbed not writing a book
on my deathbed i will regret not writing
a film yes
that is real i know that about you which
is yet another thing that i find
fascinating about you is that you also
started in fiction which is where i
started and
when i say
other than time with my wife which
trumps everything which is why it's so
easy to make her my number one priority
beyond that there is no joy that i get
quite like creating a character in a
world from nothing and then having
somebody go yo that character really
[__] impacted me yeah that i don't
know why that means more to me than the
non-fiction words that i say but it does
and the process is way more enjoyable
because the non-fiction stuff i was like
i've already said this in videos like a
bazillion times right so now you're just
making me write it in the [__] book
right let's go watch the video
and
it became very real because i turned
down a seven-figure book deal
and all i had to do was translate things
i have already said onto the [__]
page and i was like every minute that i
spend on this i'm not writing a
screenplay or a comic book and
i just i will regret i wondered too as
you were just saying that that it feels
like the difference between
um
sort of the non-fiction space and the
things like what you know in terms of
personal development or how to think or
mindset
is architecture like you built that you
took materials that existed and you
built something
but writing a script
is painting it's creating something from
absolutely nothing and you get to live
in it right which is do your care are
your characters alive in your head yes
characters you've never written down
yeah me too
and my dad is a writer as well and he
would always say that his worst fear was
that he would die and characters would
die with him that he didn't like write
them down fast enough right
um
and i think that i have books that i've
been writing in my head for a decade and
i'm like we're not ready yet but i'll
you know i'll be waiting in line at the
grocery store and i'm like
and then what if she oh you've told me
one of these stories by the way some
freaking day man makes no sense but it
makes sense to me so going back to your
question um the book that i was going to
write is what are those things that
construct a person right so
if you're 50
just hardwired it just is what it is
nothing you're going to be able to do to
change it
what what are the elements that make up
the 50 that's malleable and in a rough
nutshell it's values beliefs
rules
habits
identity
those are the big ones and then there's
a couple of little offshoots but those
are the the big ones what's the
difference between values and beliefs so
a belief is something that i think i
should do so um i should or even better
than i should statement it would be
something like
human potential is nearly limitless or
that the human animal is the ultimate
adaptation machine you choose to believe
it
and i think you choose to believe it
because it's true
there's only one belief that is just
patently false and that's you can do
anything you set your mind to without
limitation and so that i think is like
number five and then the number six is
number five is a lie but it's an
empowering lie and we do and believe
that which moves us towards our goals so
people
are so much more likely to believe
something negative that i'm always just
trying to like nudge them look yes there
you have limitations without question
nobody ever
got all the way to the edge of their
potential and then was like oh there
really is nothing more
so like don't worry about that don't
worry about the upper limit which is
what people jump to i could never do
that [__] you don't even know right
you go try right and then trust me
you'll be getting better and better day
after day and you will die long before
you max out you ever heard that arnold
schwarzenegger quote no where people
would always say like oh i don't want to
work out cause like i don't i don't want
to look like you and he was like don't
worry you won't that is one of the
greatest quotes right right sorry that
what you're saying reminded me of that
that yeah that quote is powerful do you
know that i'm blacklisted by arnold
schwarzenegger
why true true words so i had a guy
who i knew through comic books
and he was and i was like man i really
want to get schwarzenegger on the show
one day he's like i know him
and i was like oh my god yeah that's
amazing he's like oh dude no problem i
will i'll put in a word and see if he'll
come on the show and so we sent him an
email and he got a response back saying
we
anybody that uses his email to solicit
something we blacklist and so do not
contact us again so i was like oh [__]
oh no i didn't even know he was gonna do
it but so i'll last but it was so sweet
of him to reach out
like right i'm not gonna be like dude i
can't believe you did this right so i
still am grateful to him for reaching
out but i have been blacklist that is
really funny but it feels like there's a
way don't worry this is your limiting
belief no no i will have schwarzenegger
on the show i have already got you know
oh my gosh other potential ways but
i am so wait belief you said and then
what's value so value would be you
choose to think something is good so for
instance take competition you mentioned
it now everybody hates you because you
shouldn't be competitive except against
yourself which you go to great lengths
to say absolutely i disagree with i
think you should compete with other
people as well and i think if you're
afraid of competition it's because what
you have chosen to value in yourself is
being better than somebody else whereas
i don't i don't value myself for being
better than somebody else but i know
it's effective to try to beat them
because i'm playing the entrepreneurship
game right so it's like i'm trying to
win i'm trying to build the next disney
right it's like there's only so many
dollars funding so many projects right i
have to [__] win yes so but i'm not
afraid of that if i don't win it doesn't
mean i'm a bad person or i'm less
valuable so i'm very careful about what
i tie my identity up my self-esteem my
value as a human being so be very
careful where you line those things up
but understand what actually works and
that's that's my whole thing so you talk
about oh we're the main swirl this
divisive and all that and i'm like for
just once can we all just go what what's
our actual goal and then what is going
to move us towards our goal so my
obsession in life is to get people on
that bandwagon and i'm just saying when
you have a goal and you value your
willingness to compete not your
ability to win every time because you
won't but you're you value you've chosen
to value your willingness to compete and
go all out
like that to me
actually moves you forward in life
because you just become so relentless
and you keep trying and experimenting
and you find the thing that works and
you're so focused on actually achieving
something so anyway it it's just
effective but that was something i chose
to value i didn't have to right most of
my life i i derided competition because
i was terrified i couldn't win so i was
just like oh that's [__] like
you know it's such a like a toxic
masculine trait and now i'm like it's
not it's super [__] effective it can
become toxic as anything can hit a point
tell me like what that looks like though
in your life like you see someone yeah
like
no [__] like you see someone you're
like i want
that number of instagram followers or i
want that deal or i want like what does
it really look like that's that's
tangible
it depends on what it is so in comic
books it's i want more subscribers
because we're on webtoon so i want more
subscribers um i want more likes
i want
more episodes so i want this to keep
going for longer i want to have more
projects i want to generate more revenue
if i do a kickstarter i want my
kickstarter to get more backers and more
money and
none of it do i value myself for
actually achieving i value myself for
the sincere pursuit so my thing is i'm
trying to be the next disney
it's so big am i ever gonna make it they
have a 90-year head start they're gonna
keep fighting you know what i mean but
you're gonna live forever so it feels
like it's fine this year has been the
year where i accept my death
wait what
what
what what
what are you talking about yeah
i
i don't know what happened i love you
but it stopped being
useful for me to think i was going to
live forever and it started being more
useful to excite understand that you're
going to die
yeah i constantly would check back and
forth between the two which one was more
powerful yeah and it had always been
more powerful to think that i could live
forever because it made me do long-range
planning oh okay cause i was gonna say
why and i'm not entirely sure it's like
this is something that i will probably
talk incessantly about over the next
year because i'm trying to figure out
why it suddenly became self-evident that
i need to focus on that i will die
i don't yet know why well i mean we're
living
in this crazy like
there's no world well no there were like
10 guys who saw this coming but like
most people did not anticipate that we
could ever be in the situation that
we're in right now and so that has to
make you think that has to shake
the like that's where it came from but
why is death as because you talk about
it in the book why is that useful
i mean i've experienced a lot of death
in my life have you experienced a lot of
death like you have i thought i had and
then when you were like four funerals is
not a lot i was like what do you mean
not a lot
i've been to so many funerals um
which by the way when you say that i
think how many people did she know that
[__] died and then you explained that
yeah my dad was a pastor my granddad was
a pastor in southern cultures you go to
the funeral
so it's just very normal
it was
death has always been a part of my life
um which doesn't mean that it it comes
without pain but it still is just always
it just is it's like life is not fair
and we're all gonna we only get out of
here one way um
so
i think that
asking yourself that question of like
what if
i only had a week what if this is my
last day i actually asked myself that
that's probably the most common thing
that i would ask myself instead of going
like
did i do everything that i could do did
i like
that i say
if i died today
am i proud
of of who i am of the woman that i am
and
absolutely
but i'm proud of the woman i am and it
has nothing to do
with the business i've built or the fame
you value yourself for
i'm a really good friend
i have
wonderful kids
no i don't know you know they still got
a lot of time to grow so
who knows but i'm really proud of
getting to be
i don't want to say like i'm really
proud like because i don't want to say
like i don't want to take credit for
they're their own little people sure um
i guess even more than like who they are
i'm really proud of how close we are
um
i think a lot of times we
are
i think many people are
either running from
or trying to recreate maybe the
childhood or their family of origin
um
and for me i'm proud of creating
something that's different
i think one of the most powerful
things in my life is that i had
the anti-hero
in more than one person
uh and i gotta ask
who
both my parents
um i love them
and i really truly believe they did the
best they could with what they had
and
that still was
pretty crap
um
and it's like a it's kind of it's a
it's a hard thing to talk about because
i also i tried really hard in the book
and um to not tell their part of the
story
um
but just to tell my experience of that
time
but specifically in the book you were
talking about your brothers yeah [__]
gnarly right um
and
my mom's gonna read that when the book
comes out and
pretty
worried about that moment really so
that's it's not like you've had that
conversation already no
we don't have that kind of
we don't have that kind of relationship
um
but i also
it's true
and
it was one of those things i don't want
to write about stuff just gratuitously
or sort of for entertainment value but
that chapter specifically is i am
challenging
people who have
or maybe more specifically parents who
are
[__] failing their children
and i'm saying that like i i will you
didn't pull a [__] no
um that you are so you are drowning
inside of your own pain
or your own loss you know you're
drowning because of the divorce you're
drowning because you lost your job
you're not for whatever reason
and
your kids are drowning with you
and most children myself included will
try and save their parents
or
you know we learn to perform we learn to
be achievers we do you know what we can
to try and like gain love or attention
or whatever
but
what i say in the book i tell the story
my older brother
committed suicide when i was 14.
and i found him
and
i say in the book i've had
i have never
had a conversation with my parents
about what i saw
how it felt was i scared
did i need anything
um
that seems crazy it's crazy like i have
the amount of conversations i've had
with my sons about fortnite
1 000
and i have not talked to my parents
about
because they were so
and i say this to them but like i can't
even imagine what it would feel like to
have your 17 year old son take his life
i cannot imagine that
but i know
for a fact
i there is not a question in my mind
that i would not find a way even if it
was [__] even if it was fake
to keep showing up for my kids
like i can't
i can't i can't imagine it and actually
in doing this work with the cold reader
energy healer it made me think a lot
about my childhood and i went back and i
um actually this weekend i was re i
found like my my journals and my diaries
from when i was a little girl
and because i was like i'm curious like
i wanted to see her
when did she
get that this was not okay
and from a really early age like where
you can't even spell
i'm writing about you know them
screaming and like like from as a very
little like
it's awful like this little tiny little
girl diary was like where you would have
like a lock and key and i don't even
know how old i was and i'm like writing
like i'm scared like they're screaming
and
i'm reading this and i'm like if i found
something like this
that my child had created
i can't even
imagine and so when i ask myself this
question of
you know if today was the last day are
you proud
yeah
because not because of any of this sort
of worldly stuff
but my kids know they are loved my kids
know they are safe
and i'm living it out right now like
i'm going through a divorce
that as much as we are so
this whole thing is about making sure
the kids are as okay as they possibly
can be
and
man there are days
where you just put a smile on your face
and you act like
yeah family dinner sounds like a great
idea right now like
we're not angry at all let's have
meatloaf this is great um
yeah so that's that's a question i asked
myself if today was your last day are
you proud
me
aggressively and
so i
oh
the thing that i
value myself is sincere pursuit
i
found out very early that money couldn't
touch how i felt about myself so i gave
up that pursuit
um early which i'm very grateful for so
now that i have worldly success it was
like cool i already
understood
what that wouldn't be i couldn't have
100 predicted what it would be but i
knew what it wouldn't be and i knew it
wouldn't be me suddenly feeling like oh
my god i matter now right
and
that the willingness to go after big
dreams the willingness to stare nakedly
at my inadequacies and like always try
to improve like i'm super proud of that
and
i'm super
proud
of
pushing myself to be better like those
are things that matter to me
um and then
like this is a weird one little moment
among many moments that i would sort of
pull on my deathbed and be like wow i'm
really proud of the way that i handled
that um
i'm proud that on the day that i became
wealthy like legitimately my bank
account changed lisa said what do you
want to do today and i was like what do
you mean i'm going to work
and
i went to work like normal and and that
was that and nobody in the company would
ever have been able to tell you what
what the day was that you know the money
hit because
it wasn't about that right and so that
like those little things where you're
true to like
the values that you hold and nothing
sways you like those are always the cool
moments but can i tell you what i
am proud of about you or think you
should value in yourself okay
in the chapter where you're talking
about
um
parents like
i'm writing this so if you're drowning
right now that you'll wake up
that's going to alienate some people
yeah when you
told me that you were writing what the
health i was like oh so you want to like
piss off half your audience right
um you always say what you think will
add value to somebody and not what is
necessarily just going to add value to
you financially right which
like i think about that a lot in terms
of there there are short-term things
that you could do oh my god
well you know what's so funny uh or
fascinating to me
is that there was a group of people who
were
so angry that
we're getting divorced
and
the rallying cry
was that i was fake that i was a liar
and i was like
this is the most authentic thing i've
ever done
[Music]
i am making a choice that will
anger an audience upset our families
break my children's hearts break my best
friend's heart like i am making a choice
that will affect my business that
affects the brand like all of those
things
but i have spent my entire career
speaking truth of like you need to live
who you are you need to take ownership
of your life you need to be true to
yourself you need to do
you should be more
like i would be a fake
if i kept
living
in a relationship that worked really
well
in these four categories but was deeply
unhealthy over here
just to make everybody happy
or just to make more money like i
all a publisher wants after a book like
girl wash your face is girl wash your
face two right and girl wash your face
three like that's all that i could have
made so much money
and i wouldn't
and
god what a way what a way to live
i can't even why do you like why does
that matter to you
to like to put it all at risk what what
you've created is really
lightning in a bottle like
it is rare that i
like sort of stutter to say that oh i
could have that kind of success like
when i thought i was going to publish my
book
whoo homie i didn't dare to dream that
it would have
like the kind of explosive success that
you've had
are you afraid of golden handcuffs is it
the notion of what you think about
yourself when you're by yourself like
what is it that like why like
health right you know you're gonna piss
people off like why why go down i've
done
a lot of therapy so i can tell you
what i know is that um
my
family life was you know written about
at a time it was very hard the most
awful parts about it i will never write
down
and from the outside it was perfect
you know preacher's family
everyone looked real cute on sunday mom
made sure everyone's hair was braided
right
and it was behind the scenes it was
awful
and i'll be damned
if i pretend to be something i'm not
on the enneagram
which you know i love do you know your
enneagram number no i was like enneagram
i don't even know i've never heard those
syllables together
tom i don't even know where you
what are you talking about like intj no
no enneagram has been around since
ancient greece it is personal oh my god
how we've been friends this long i feel
like i tell people on the street people
target i'm like do you know your
enneagram number it's a series of
numbers it's personality types
um one through nine okay that i have
heard you talking about yes it's just
like oh
my gosh i need to know what you are now
um so there's a way to find out yeah i
mean like right now or do i have to go
you'd have to take a test
i have my theory about what you are but
you're not ever supposed to diagnose
someone so i won't
um but i am a three which is an achiever
mm-hmm
we might be this is gonna say but i'm an
achiever and then everyone has a wing so
it's either the number four before you
or the number after you and i'm a three
a four is an individualist
a four cares more about
being themselves than being accepted for
being them like they are who they are
they're the artists they're the people
who have pink hair when that's like it
matters deeply that you are allowed to
be who you are individualists don't
really feel like they're understood like
nobody truly gets them whatever so i'm a
three-four and i feel my four very
strong
i feel like you've got
you're either a three four i'm not
supposed to tell you what's a two three
two is a helper other one yeah you're
not
you help people but i don't see you as a
helper i don't i i'd have to look so one
a big driver in my life is um it's true
i
don't immediately identify myself as a
helper when i think though what some of
my driving motivations are it's
definitely to help other people but at
the same time i am very happy for people
to never know it was me
right so i need to feel like i matter i
need to feel like i have purpose i need
to feel like i'm helping other people um
but i don't need it to be up close i'm
not a person who would say well as long
as i help one person i can be there in
their life and and see that right right
and twos need it matters to them that
you acknowledge that they helped you
that does not matter right and so a
question that
is a good one for this is what do you
think about when you think about things
like what's the most common theme i
don't even know what that means so
meaning i'm an achiever so what i'm
thinking about
is the list
of all the things that i need how am i
gonna do that and what's that and you
know
i feel like you're either a three or
there's a very
strong chance that you're an eight which
is the challenger ooh that's interesting
that i would challenge authority kind of
thing anything that's interesting so now
i really want to take this thing right
so i will
i have
always had a problem with authority
i
don't
i mean maybe to some extent like they're
i could see a world in which that makes
sense for me i will tell you a quick
story from my childhood yes please so i
was on the freshman basketball team i
was the worst player on the team
everybody had an outfit that matched
except me
and i had the outfit from like the
previous era before they changed oh man
so uh that gives you an idea of how good
i was and we were on the bus and the
freshman team has a different coach
even in the jv
even in the varsity the varsity coach
came on the freshman bus and was like
every one of you guys has something to
work on and i said even the coaches
and of course i got in trouble and what
an [__] like if i could go back in
time be like hey dumbass you really are
the worst person
right be quiet you focus getting better
and worried about yourself but that was
definitely a huge part of my youth a big
part of why i wanted to get rich was i
didn't like that i couldn't have the
things that i wanted as a kid so there
is a certain amount of rebellion but
when i think about things i don't think
of it from
that's not entirely true earlier when
you said um oh god what were you saying
like
this is the heroine i think i was going
to say i want to go get addicted to
world of warcraft just to show that i
can stop and i used to joke with people
that i'm going to get addicted to heroin
just to show people that i can stop oh
my god i was like i always told people
i'm obviously i'm not going to yes but
there is like that element in my purse
you want to prove it i won't deny that
but when i think about things
i think about puzzles
and this puzzle is solvable
and because i believe it's solvable
that's how i approach business i've
heard you say that about one of the
things you love about entrepreneurship
is solving the puzzle yep absolutely
that's a big thing for me this year has
felt like
the puzzle it's one of those puzzles
that's five thousand pieces and it's all
black like there's no
you know that's those puzzles that are
all one color that's what this year
feels like it feels like we pivot and we
pivot again and we like i am
there has been so much stress this year
that for the first time ever i'm like
i'm just like watching it go by like i'm
separated from
it's not to say that i don't um
experience it but there's have you ever
been in seasons where there's just so
much stress that you're like
i literally can't carry one more thing
no i i have but i wouldn't describe it
the way you're describing it so i have
used adaptogens
that is a hilarious question i don't
i've heard of adaptogens but i don't
actually know what they are um so it's
my favorite i like basically keep an
extra bottle of them in my house so a
nutritionist described adaptogens to me
a couple of years ago as like
the waves don't go you don't go quite as
high or quite as low um and it's like
the stress is still there or the anxiety
might still pop up but you're not in it
you're you're watching it from a
distance i don't know how meditative
right
um so i tried a few different ones and
you can get them at a grocery store like
over the counter there's supplements
like anything else um my favorite one is
called holy basil leaf i take a holy
basil leaf pill every night of my life
and i swear by it and in the really hard
seasons i'll have one in the morning too
i'm very very sensitive to anything so
for me to say that this doesn't affect
me at all and make me tired is a big
deal um
but
i
the reason i swear by it so much is that
one time i ran out
[Laughter]
and you're like beanie scratching right
yeah i was wild and i just swear by it
so i do think this that has been a big
part of this year and i meditate no but
i really know that i need to homie you
need to this is like okay so everybody
has a person in their life that they
love and they can't help yeah it just
like [__] breaks their heart and they
probably help a lot of other people
right just because they're so upset they
can't help that one person yes
my wife in meditation my wife refuses to
[__] meditate she's tried it and so
she did actually recently say that i
could sit with her and and meditate with
her and i think you would guide her
through yeah okay and now look there's
almost nothing that i will say is for
everyone
meditation is biological it is you your
body has physiological hooks that move
you about from parasympathetic to
sympathetic to back and so like when i
do breath work you there you won't
not get tingly lips and all that stuff
if you're breathing in a certain way
you will be able to extend how long you
can hold your breath if you like
practice getting the co2 out of your
body and meditation is the same thing
once you learn how to diaphragm breathe
and then you do it over a long enough
period of time and you just keep gently
bringing yourself back to the breath
like for everyone it will bring
background radiation to zero now the
more spiritual elements of meditation i
won't speak to so maybe somebody's
overhyped it and so you sat down to try
it and you're like i'm not seeing the
face of god what the [__] is this i just
more have a hard time focusing oh my god
you do meditate i remember thinking
while i was reading your book you pray
like a [__] thing i do
they literally
track the breathing of people in prayer
and it matches accidentally i mean just
biologically because the body slips into
this breathing which is five breaths per
minute
people who meditate or say the lord's
prayer or whatever it is they tend to
slide into five breaths per minute the
people that are meditating fall into the
same breath pattern so
prayer is basically prayer is probably
closer to what i call thinkitation okay
where you're you have thoughts you're
you're not trying to empty your mind but
you're in this really thoughtful
contemplative space
you're not trying to go anywhere else i
see you're trying to connect with
something i see so my gut instinct is
that which is why you do it in times of
stress yeah that you tend to pray at
night so when you're meditating you're
just you're in that breath you're just
focusing on the breath your mind is
clear my mind wanders constantly and you
gently bring it back to the breath
without judgment right so
i have been in legal battles where
hundreds of millions of dollars are at
stake
and
that's about as
terrifying as a non-life-threatening
thing is going to get
like just the consequences are so high
and so matter
and
in those times
i could it was i found that i was never
more than 45 minutes away from total
equanimity where 45 minutes before that
i was like yo i cannot carry one more
thing like this [__] crazy i can feel
so i have a rule in my life going back
to rules beliefs values yeah all that
stuff i have a rule in my life that i
don't tolerate overwhelm now ironically
by telling yourself that you don't
tolerate it you actually pattern
interrupt and that sense of like
escalation immediately stops right and
then i'll meditate and that keeps me in
a physiologically calm place but it is
it's truly a biological experience so
when i find myself ratcheting up and the
stress just [__] crazy
i meditate and and you
if you're
consistent
you can't help but become calm because
the um the parasympathetic and the
sympathetic nervous system are a seesaw
you can't be both elevated and calm at
the same time right so
as you do things physiologically that
calm you that slow your heart rate that
slow your breathing that slow your mind
you can't help but you literally can't
help but become calm um i made a
decision
a few weeks ago you were talking about
rules and i made a rule i just like one
day i was like
i refuse to hold
anxiety for someone else ever again
so
i realize
like i've worked so hard on anxiety in
myself but i realized that i am still
like if someone at work or you know
something's happening whatever and
they're like rachel this is and i'm like
okay oh my gosh okay great let's fix it
and
i
had this happen recently it's and
probably because this year has felt like
that has happened a hundred times
that i someone will sort of bring me up
to this heightened crazy state
and then i have to solve the problem and
then talk myself back down instead of
just solving the problem from down here
and
i had this interaction recently where i
got off the phone with someone on my
team and i was like i just absorbed all
she just like gave it all to me
and i almost feel like she literally
like handed me the package so that then
not consciously but so that then she now
it's like okay hot potato now you hold
this anxiety
and
the other day i thought
this is a choice
like i and i'm not saying that i could
snap my fingers and it's that fast but
just making the conscious decision of
exactly what you just said make it a
rule
and in in the
like in the week since i made this
choice i've had and i'm start to get and
i'm like nope we don't do this anymore
we we won't hold anxiety for them
we have enough things in your life that
might give you anxiety you're not going
to hold this space for this person
yeah i think people under utilize rules
that's one of those like people ask me a
lot of times you know how do i do this
thing how do i stick with it or whatever
and it's like well at some point it
really does come down to you either do
it or you don't right and at some point
you have to have made a line in the sand
and you either cross it or you don't and
i'm all for people building up to that
like one of the most important rules of
my life and i can tell when i say this
to people that it's not an issue for
them so they don't recognize like i'm
i'm telling you like one of my deepest
darkest shameful things which is
i have a rule that i get out of bed in
10 minutes or less because there was a
period of my life where i would lay in
bed for four and five hours at a time
wow there was a time in my life where i
was on unemployment and i played video
games in bed for
10 hours a day right i mean it was
crazy right and
because it's like time i will never get
back
and now that efficiency has become so
important to me
that i really do mourn the loss of that
time and it's really embarrassing to
think back to
you know how long i would sit and lay in
bed so i had to just put a rule in my
life you get out of bed in 10 minutes or
less that's it like no if ends or buts
there's no way around it and it got to
the point where
i would be so hardcore that
if my feet touched the ground and it
clicked over to the 11th minute before i
stood up i would confess it to lisa and
be like i didn't get out of bed in less
than 10 minutes today wow that was
really important to me yeah and i feel
like there's a lot of this stuff is
blocking and tackling like it's pretty
basic [__] it's saying i'm not going to
hold somebody but do you feel like you
had to have the emotional leverage of
shame for that to god now you really get
into the [__] crazy stuff like and
this is yes
like
people are afraid to use the dark side
and that's like so now i want to get
into you as an entrepreneur right
you've written about it you've talked
about it yeah do people really
understand how hardcore you are no
do you want them to understand how
hardcore you are you know what's
interesting about
18 months ago maybe a year ago i was
like why don't
female entrepreneurs
who have achieved incredible success
talk about it
why did you know it was you know this is
a conversation we need to have too is
like the sexiest thing in the whole
world in 2019 was to be an entrepreneur
and like be on the private jet and like
have the cool car and you know do the
thing like we we know all the people who
do this thing and it was really cool
especially if you had a following of
like 19 year old dudes
who who love that and want to see that
and i love like i love garyvee love it
show me all the things travel around the
world be in meetings all day i love i'm
here for it
but i thought this is crazy why doesn't
anyone show women um and why don't i'm
like why doesn't oprah talk about the
fact that she's worth two billion
dollars um or
you know sarah blakely who i adore in
her master class is so good it's my
favorite master class
but she's pretty demure about
the fact that she invented something and
built a billion dollar company and
warren buffett is her mentor and like
incredible like
where's the like where's the film crew
following her around and showing
women like me what that looks like when
you have four kids because she does
so i just kept wondering and then i
thought
nobody's hot nobody's doing this i'll do
it
i'll say that i've made millions i'll
say that i have this company i'll say
that i've done these things and i'll say
how many books i've sold don't say this
stuff
and man you could flip a switch
to
the videos like all of the things that
are wrong with rachel hollis
because
it's okay when guys do it
but i don't think that culturally
something happens
when a woman claims success and i don't
know if it's all success or just success
in the business arena because it's not
typically a place that maybe you see
women having massive success
but
within six months i was like oh this is
why this is why they don't talk about it
here's so i actually understand i'm not
vouching for it i understand why guys
aren't necessarily going to be turned on
by it so i lived
my wife going from a housewife and cook
my meals and set up my clothes and be
sexy for your husband and all of that to
becoming a savage entrepreneur right and
being the hardest core [__] she
is
like
upsetting me as the boss is like one
thing don't [__] piss off lisa she
she will hold your ass accountable in a
way you did not know you could be held
accountable right she makes me
uncomfortable sometimes i'm like god
damn like she she is 100 a savage
so i get why some guys be like whoa like
that that's some interesting [__] i want
to go club yeah i wasn't the guy who had
a problem
right
but women go [__] hard what the [__]
i actually i want to know like what's
what's that triggering
i
i think from the time we're little we're
taught to compete with other women
and we're taught to i mean talk about
rules we're taught that these are like
our our family of origin or our religion
or the place that we grew up in the
world says these are the guardrails
you're allowed to be inside of
and
god forbid another girl steps outside of
those guard rails
number one we're taught
to
tease her we're taught to ostracize her
we're taught to do things to let her
know that she stepped outside the norm
but the only thing worse than that girl
stepping outside the norm is her
stepping outside the norm and having
success at it
it's like i imagine being back in middle
school where there was like these were
the popular girls they were cheerleaders
they were blonde they were whatever
and then
it became cool to be goth and then like
i remember there was a there was a
cheerleader in my middle school blonde
whatever who just like who knows what
was going on at home like shaved her
head pixie cut black hair
coal eye like full goth right and
everyone talks [__] and it was like oh
like whatever she got me whatever
but you know who thought that was hot
the guys
so even worse than her stepping outside
of what was allowed well she had success
at it
so now not only are we going to talk
[__] but now she's a target now we
actually need to see what we could do to
break her down completely
and i think that that's what happens
it's
it's like just
there's room enough for all of us to
just be who we are
but there's something about someone
that you
identified with in some way
either because you're a mom too or
because
you are a woman of faith too or because
you followed me when i was a food
blogger whatever right
you identified with me in some way and
now i've done something that has stepped
outside of what you consider normal
and i've had success at it
and that truthfully
challenges
where you are well now you're doing even
farther so
because
when when you blow up a girl wash your
face and it was like i peed my pants and
was this like
you really showing the vulnerability
sure people were team rachel it's only
when you start talking about being a
savage and making all this money and
then then all day then it's like what's
weird to me is that they don't realize
that both sides of that coin are true
same person right
and and we every we're both right that's
rad to me like being a hardcore
[__] and
every now and then i think what is the
book that like
feels so important to me that i would
put it up there with writing fiction
and every now and then i i sort of
circle around this idea of being a
hardcore [__] and to my
potential position as a number eight
challenger right uh
when people react negatively to me
talking about being hardcore go hardcore
right get after it get better every
[__] day not just about you against
you you against the [__] world like
take it over and the more people tell me
to calm down like the more i want to go
and get high and i'm like it [__]
works right people build [__] because
they're hardcore they overcome obstacles
they keep going and pushing and it's
what's the oh god there's a quote i
forget who it's by but it goes something
like this
progress the uh the
reasonable man
bends to the will of the world the
unreasonable man bends the world to his
will therefore all progress um
will come only to the unreasonable man
the actual quote is [__] more slick
than that but
oh my god like i can feel myself want to
just be unreasonable because it's like
yes i want to bend the world to my will
i don't understand why people don't get
intoxicated by that idea like i do
i mean i love being around you because i
love when you start this because i'm
like yes yeah go um and it it
it's super important and it fires me up
because it's not something that i get to
interact with all the time that's why i
literally um
i'm going on youtube like i'm gonna go
watch i will walk like you are my friend
i could call you be like tom based on me
and like tell me to be strong or
whatever but i will go watch
keynotes or i'll go listen because it i
it's like you need that
state creating moment of like being
reminded
like you might be a freak but there's
other freaks like you right because i do
feel like
i don't feel like i'm normal
and it is very hard to find
for sure not other women
who are
like me or think like me
and not i'm not saying like oh i'm like
i'm thinking i'm more that i i have not
yet met another
female entrepreneur who's also trying to
be a great mom like how do you do both
and [__] kill this but also kill this
and i believe that it's possible
but in the same way that you're like
coming at yourself and like i'm gonna go
build disney whatever
i'm gonna do both of those really well
and the world constantly
tries to tell me that that's impossible
like
they tell me constantly that doing one
of those things sacrifices the other and
i just don't believe it's true the fun
of rachel hollis to me is that you keep
going and even i i look sometimes and i
think there's some hate in you for sure
like i know some of your secret dreams
that you haven't talked about they're
[__] awesome right and that that i
know i can count on you to not stop to
just keep going you may or may not
accomplish it right they're they're
[__] big they're crazy they're
amazing um i never value somebody for
whether they actually achieve it i i
value them for like are you really going
for it or you just is this rhetoric
right or is this something you really
show up every day and [__] play to
win right and i
i think it's rad so normal having
lived through lisa's transformation and
seeing how awesome it is now to have a
wife who is truly my peer as an
entrepreneur
and how [__] rad that is and now
i like as hardcore as i go she's going
hardcore and
not in a toxic way like she's very good
about like hey you know like i need to
back off right now or whatever and she's
very good about that because she's had
struggles with her health and stuff um
but
that's [__] fun and i just want to
see other people be celebrated for
like the way that they can bend the
world to their will and the things that
they can create it's so inspiring like
even if all
your like go-getting
inspires somebody to do is be like the
greatest ping-pong player of all time or
the greatest mom of all time absolutely
like what i'm [__] i don't care what
the goal is i mean you said this earlier
and this is my belief too i don't care
what the goal is but you got to have a
goal i don't care if the goal is you
want to make the bed the best jalapeno
cheddar cornbread on the planet truly
the the
magic happens in the pursuit
you become who you're meant to be in the
pursuit of something
so many people are stuck so many people
are like don't know how to it's like
do something do anything aim at anything
right now because at least that will
give you some direction to head in i do
have a theory though you want to hear my
theory of course
so i'm going to do this backwards
so i built
a company right i built this company
that
has been very successful and even in
2020 and even in what that means with
the economy and like until we can get
back to a place we can do events all
those things i'm going to continue to
run a company that's successful
but
i keep thinking about
the rock
or oprah or reese witherspoon or name
the celebrity
who has built companies
but it felt
allowed
for them to have a company because they
had celebrity so they almost like earned
your attention in a way that was
accepted
and then they
sold you stuff right like
oh i love him i you know he's like my
favorite human all the rock does right
now sell you tequila that's all he does
delicious tequila by the way i don't
know if you drink too that's actually
really good
he sent me some i don't know if you
heard but it's fine it's fine
um it's we're basically best friends
it's fine no we're not he doesn't know
who i am um
it's like this is my theory
is that i'm gonna do it backwards now
it's like i built the company and the
infrastructure is obviously there
and then i'm gonna go do some things
that feel like more traditional
entertainment
so it feels like
oh that's why
and then like
five years from now people are gonna be
like oh my gosh rachel hall started a
company
that's interesting as a blueprint for
in in the digital age where we have
youtube
and
people can get
good at something behind the scenes
build something and then leverage that
in front of the camera which to me is
far more interesting than doing it the
other way right now
reese or you know seven bucks or the
seven bucks production company is the
name
the rock
that makes sense you come up as an actor
or whatever and then you start making
the stuff yourselves but
to be a influencer but not have built
something like the only reason i ever
let myself step in front of a camera was
i had spent by the time i sat in front
of a camera i'd been an entrepreneur for
15 years i'd had my ups and downs um you
know was really finally understanding
how to do this stuff and all the changes
that i'd had to make to myself and so
felt like i could go and offer value
but the only reason that i continue to
do it now is because i'm building a
separate company so i
can sell people
a business class right because i'm i'm
my business isn't the business class
right my business is actually over here
right i know this is a financial
opportunity and so i do it
but all the [__] that i'm doing all day
and learning and growing this thing over
here i'm just teaching what i'm doing
yep
so
that makes a lot of sense yeah so
backwards maybe from the way that it's
done traditionally but right far more
interesting right and just like this is
something that feels a little bit more
accepted and i think you know i told you
18 months ago that i was like oh i'm
going to be the one
who
who sort of carries this torch forward
and then i ran into that like started
talking about numbers and start because
i'm really proud of a high school
diploma like i'm really proud of what i
built
um
and then i was like whoa calm down
slow your roll like there needs to be
more strategy behind this if
oprah
the queen of all like hasn't done this
hasn't talked about this if all of these
really smart very successful women
aren't leading out in this way there's a
reason
so what's the reason
so how
it's like i wanted to set an example but
not at the detriment
of the brand of the business i think
about that a lot in terms of what would
i need to do to grow faster so
when i look at you know there's
a lot of young upstarts that appeal to
the 19 year old guys you were talking
about and flash the wealth and the cars
and all that stuff
and
the team will be like
you know if we did a video right and we
have the drone shot of your house
you know all of that
um
we could sell a lot more business
courses or the number of [__] times a
pr team has asked me like you know to
tell tell the story about you know how
you build the the billion dollar company
and you know just just make sure you
work in that stuff right and
it would be better for business but the
thing that is
i actually i'm i'm making a bet
that
and i want this to be true because it
wouldn't be better for how i feel about
myself when i'm by myself i don't do it
and now because i'm not willing to do it
anyway i want to believe that on a long
enough timeline
people see
me
[Music]
in the muck
in the dirt the parts where i'm trying
to figure it out and i'm just trying to
help people
really gain the skills that they need to
have to go on and do something
extraordinary my hope is that like
people see like he doesn't posture he's
not faking it he's not selling a dream
right like it's just look the [__] is
[__] hard right it's super [__]
tactical
learn these things do this you can have
success no one can guarantee that the
most successful people i know this is
just real the most successful people i
know the wealthiest people i know
are not the people who would ever make a
video
with the drone shop
they would never
show off the private jet because they
don't need to but you know what i mean
like the wealthiest most successful
people i know
like if someone's doing that you need to
ask yourself why
my thing is the only reason that i don't
do it is because the money won't change
how you feel about yourself so
if i
get you
enticed
by the money and you pursue money
it's a losing proposition it's like i
have to find a way to get you to pursue
improving yourself getting control of
your emotional life well also because
you're not a douchebag
like that come on it's the it's the dude
but if it were real it wouldn't be
douchey i don't think like if it were
real that in pursuing money you will
make the changes that you want to make
then great no problem it's just that it
is i'm talking about the very specific
like wearing you know designer whatever
on the private jet showing that like
over the top showing that which we know
people who do
though i do think we're in a time period
that's going to get [__] on so hard this
is like
the french revolution like you cannot if
people are still doing that you're dead
you are dead
even i i followed this really closely
when we went into quarantine because i
was just like okay
all of these celebrities have the
highest level publicist in the world
i want to not listen to what people say
i want to watch what people do
and if you notice and i still think
they're in this place like go through go
scroll through social like biggest
celebrities
shots are really tight
you know it's like you're not showing
the whole living room anymore you're
just showing like this one moment
there's nothing fancy there's we're in
jeans and t-shirts we're no makeup
because
the last thing that you
should be doing right now
is showing that off or shoving that down
people's throats like it's so
the idea of tone deaf or so
disrespectful i haven't checked but i'm
sure some of the usual suspects are
still
showing their
you know fancy belt buckle yeah
private jet that they totally rented and
pretend is theirs that yeah that's funny
the thing that
there's a flip side to that coin which
is ambition is now getting [__] on and
that makes me really [__] sad for
other people cause it's like look i'm
going to win like if you guys want to
stop playing
fine right that's not interesting to me
right like i'm not interested in talking
people out of competing so that i can
win but it's like
do you think that's something that's
happened inside of like coved and this
world what whatever this change is
that's been going on for a while and i
don't just think it's coveted i think
covet accelerated it but there is like
the fact that people will pull down an
american flag the fact that people will
um you know laugh if you say man it's
the american dream like come on we can
do this um the fact that it's those are
people who don't who've never
clearly been to another country
a
and
more distressing to me is because i
think of america as an idea far more
than i think of it as a place like my
wife is what i call a foreign-born
american she was just always american
she was just always optimistic she
always had big dreams she always felt
like you know put me in coach like let
me do this i can do it and so from the
time she was a little kid she's always
said i'm going to live in america one
day
and
like that enthusiasm for oh i can change
my life
is to me like
that's the juice like the the very thing
that i want to give people is the belief
that they can improve their life
and
because i founded quest in the middle of
the great recession it's like i know how
you can control your destiny you can
build something even when the deck
really is stacked against you right
you're one i never thought about this
you're one of those people
like how many millionaires billionaires
big businesses are born in recession
you're one of those people it's a moment
of disruption and what happens is people
get
emotionally and mentally defeated and so
there's just less people playing the
game that's part of it and so it's the
people that
can we just sit in that for a minute
there's just less people playing the
game yeah
i i was uh
i was at a
meeting yesterday with someone and i was
trying to like pep him up with this of
like
do you know how many people are dropping
out of the race
like
honest to god half the battle right now
is can you just stay standing you fall
down and can you stand back up and can
you keep going because that really is it
like
i i really do you're talking about like
entrepreneur and like being so hardcore
i really
i'm gonna come out the other side of
this year like i'm already like
[__]
i am strong as [__] like i knew i was
strong but i did not
the mental
stamina to survive like personal life
absolutely that personal life
is over here but everything that has
happened in the business this
year i can't even believe
it is like
sucker punch one after another and like
you're like okay we figured it out like
we dodged that bullet and they're like
oh no you got shot in the other arm you
didn't know that one's bleeding enough
too business it's business that that is
like
and it's like you
okay wait i want to ask this real
were there times in building quests
after you had made money
where you're like
[__] what the [__] am i doing not even
once
that's your brain is wired that way
here here is the
because i had my crisis early meaning so
the company before quest was a company
called awareness technologies so i leave
teaching filmmaking to go work at this
company as a copywriter and they gave me
this great speech which i will forever
be in their debt for which was don't
think of yourself as an employee think
of yourself as a partner if you add so
much value that we would rather make you
a partner than lose you then you can
become a partner right and
i did and true to their word they made
me a partner and i was worth about two
million dollars on paper and people need
to understand the difference between
paper money right and cash money which
most people don't right so they think
you know these billionaires that right
over covet yeah they've just become
richer it's like that money's not in
their [__] banks right it's like a
baseball card going up in value you
still have to sell the [__] baseball
right anyway we started on that yeah but
um
i
was
technically wealthy
and felt emotionally bankrupt and i was
like oh my god i feel [__] dead and i
was like this sucks driving into work
there's like this [__] dark cloud my
wife finally pulled me aside and said
look
this is now damaging the marriage you
were so unhappy and you're working so
much what the [__] are you doing
and i was like you're right i need to do
something that makes me feel alive and
that became my mantra i go in and quit
it's a moment of deep shame and so yes
it ends up being the most important
thing and it gives birth to quest and
blah blah but at the time you don't
[__] know where it's going right it
just seems like you're
you've broken and you can't go on
anymore and so i was like this sucks
i've got to go do something that makes
me feel alive so in that moment i
realized oh this is about how i feel
when i'm by myself this isn't about
money or what other people how do you
feel about yourself when you're by
yourself 100 how you feel about yourself
is all that matters like that's it
neurochemistry is the game like how many
billionaires have to commit suicide
before people realize
it doesn't it's not about the effect how
you feel about yourself
and so
one of the things i'm super grateful for
is the way that i got wealthy was by
creating equity so equity in a company
the company becomes valued more and then
ultimately you sell it but while you're
building that value on paper i was worth
hundreds of millions of dollars
but i didn't have anything other than my
normal salary right to show for it right
so
it was
one day to the next oh okay cool now
i've got wealth and oh my god i don't
feel any different all of the
insecurities that i had coming into this
stuff i still have right so
you talk about
when people have a goal that is just
geography
but who you are is going to follow you
right to that new geography who you are
is going to follow you to being wealthy
who you are is going to follow you to
being broke by the way right so if
you're stable and you know who you are
and you feel good about yourself and
then you go broke you're still stable
you still know who you are unless you
were foolish enough to value yourself
for money
so
that i buy into tremendously so i had
that crisis very early i knew that it
was about how i felt about myself so i
just started focusing on what are the
things i need to do to feel good about
myself
i come to this whole there's a book i
think it's called drive
maybe by stephen pinker but i can't
remember go home into that and he talks
about the five things that actually
motivate people which are
money
okay autonomy yep
meaning
purpose
which one am i forgetting
meaning and purpose of the two that
ultimately really matter i can't believe
that i don't remember the fifth one if i
sat with it long enough i would
definitely but um
oh i think progress okay getting better
mastery that's how he words it mastery
so we all want to get better at
something absolutely um
meaning and purpose meaning and purpose
if you don't have meaning and purpose so
i was like cool that's the [__]
glowing orb i will set at the center of
my heart and soul my daily life is all
going to be about meaning and purpose so
once the company was no longer about
wealth creation it was about meaning and
purpose i knew even if i sell the
company so to give you an idea i exited
quest on a monday on tuesday tuesday we
started impact theory i didn't take a
single [__] day off so because i knew
that it's about meaning and purpose
and showing up and doing hard things and
pushing and being a hardcore
[__] right not to be a broke
record but it's like these are the
things that i value in my life so you
know you take that again that tapestry
of beliefs rules values identity you
bundle it up and it's like
there there was it's not even like i
considered taking a day off it's like of
course i'm gonna stop doing one thing on
monday and start doing the next thing on
a tuesday right that's just what makes
sense to me
i don't feel like
like i've been in i sound so silly like
i've been in a game so long but i've
been in it so long
but
there are days where it's just like
what the hell
what the actual hell so what are the
bumpers in the alley that stop you from
giving up
because i've fought too god damn long to
be here what would you package that as
identity
probably like this is who i am i'm the
person who gets back up i'm tenacious i
go again no matter what i go again and
i think if
if you were going to give up you should
have given up
in 08 you should have given up
like i you know i literally in the last
nine months like i've thought through
like oh remember when this happened and
remember when this happened i remember
and you just you know
got on with customer service and
answered you know 5 000 emails and like
called people and did
like if you were gonna why'd you go
through all of this if you were gonna
give up why didn't you give up back then
like this is not yeah i guess it is
identity that's not who i am you talk
about it in the book and
it was a really powerful section
i think it was actually a different
section but marrying where you were
talking about identity with when you
were talking about the navy seals yeah
and you were like one of the things that
really resonated with you was that they
say every time we fall back every time
we fall down we're going to get back up
yep yeah
um
it just
i i'm surprised at myself like i and i'm
not saying that as i like uh oh i'm so
fancy
but i think of this year maybe this is
has been like this for a lot of
entrepreneurs or business owners or just
humans
it reminds me of running my first
marathon
my only marathon
i remind you of running a marathon and i
signed up never you know the whole thing
like never thought i was a runner
decided to run whatever
sign up for the la marathon the day of
my marathon this freak occurrence in los
angeles it was 92 degrees in february oh
right
don't know why
so
when you train for
right it's awful when you train for a
marathon i don't know if you know that
you don't run your full distance
so you train to like 18 or 20 miles when
a full marathon is 26.2
and they tell you
your adrenaline will carry you the rest
of the way but it means that you show up
on race morning not really knowing if
you've got it right and i was so
[__] scared
and
so scared mostly i don't care what
anyone else thinks
but i
did not want to fail myself
and for me and
i know that people will hear this
however they want to hear this for me
it would have been a failure to walk
i had trained for months i had trained
to run a marathon and
man if you walk 26 good for you like
that's amazing but for me i knew that it
would i would feel like i had i had
given up on my goal which was to run
26.2 miles
so i
felt like everything was stacked against
me that day
i was on my period tom like i was like
i'm one of those people in a magazine
who's like bleeding out on mile 18 but
i'm gonna keep going
like i it's 92 degrees and you're
literally literally people are passing
out as we're running this race like it
was crazy
and i get to
mile 18 and it's so wild because i was
thinking about this the other day and
then i was driving up mile 18. so in la
the la marathon you run from dodger
stadium to santa monica pier whoa right
that's crazy it's crazy it's a really
cool race because you're just running
distance as opposed to a circle
but mile 18 was wilshere
and it was like
i don't even know what time of day like
high noon or something is so hot and
it's all asphalt and it was ju i just
felt like i was going to die
and it took everything in my power to
get through mile 18 and i was thinking
i'm not how am i gonna get to 26 there's
no way and i was just like
i mean the cussing that i did in my own
head and i was running
slower than anyone can walk everyone can
walk faster than i was running but it
was like a mental thing i maybe as long
as i felt like i was still keeping my
commitment to myself i'm just like
barely you know so slow like a turtle
running this marathon
and
i got
to mile 25 and that's where you're like
coming in
to santa monica and you're like running
along the ocean and you see the ferris
wheel and um
one of the most profound experiences of
my whole life
mile 25 into the end of this race
and it is it is ingrained in my nervous
system i can see that day i can smell
the ocean i can i was playing miley
cyrus the climb on repeat which is so
lame but it was like i was so delirious
i was just 26 miles no no no just that
last bit just that last bit i just like
over and over and over
and
i'm just like you're gonna do it like
you get them you for for for 25 miles
i've been like i'm not gonna do it i
can't do it and then i'm like oh my god
we're gonna do this
and
the only thing that i can equate it to
is
um giving birth because that is an
equally impossible physical feat like i
have no idea how my body
did that
um
but the amount of time like i always
tell the story to people who are like i
don't know should i send him for a 5k or
you know what should i
it doesn't matter what it is
but i think that as human beings we need
things in our lives that we look back on
and we're like
i survived mile 25
i survived mile 18.
and for a lot of people
2020 is going to be their mile 25 right
that's interesting and
that only happens
if you keep going
like in 2020
even i who am resilient as [__]
am like
this year's getting us
so if we can if we can survive this if
we can thrive if we can
if we can be the people who are still in
the race if we can be whatever that
looks like like if we can still be in
this
you get to 21
or
20 like
you're untouchable
what's gonna get you like i'm still
standing right now as an entrepreneur in
2020 owning a live events business
because i lived through
i owned a high-end event planning
company
in 2008 like just
nobody wants that in 2008.
i don't know i'm
shocked at like we're all just here and
we're all still
standing up
it's interesting because i see you i
think very differently than you see you
which is one of the fascinating so if
somebody said all right you you've got a
couple chips you can put on people that
you just know 100 no matter what
is thrown at this person like they will
be standing on the other side yeah
definitely easy chip on you right like
just no question 100
but not
easily that's what i love this is that's
the magic of like the rachel hollis
human
who is the brand
is
this [__] is hard it drives me crazy
when people look at me and think well
sure easy enough for you i'm like
[__] there was a point in my
life where i couldn't tell a story to my
own family right because i was
debilitated by anxiety right and had to
claw on my way back from that there was
a point in my life where i was lying on
my unfurnished apartment because i
couldn't afford furnishings uh feeling
the synthetic carpet smashing into my
face and thinking
how the [__] am i ever going to do
anything with my life i'm too stupid to
have the kind of storied existence that
i want right i have no idea how to make
my dreams come true and
it's
clawing your way from stuff like that
that
i want to be inspiring to people and
this is why
it
with empathy i'm when i see people
tearing other people down i'm just like
what are you doing
like is
is there anything else you could take
away from this is there a lesson is
there inspiration is there like
something because
the hard moment is going to come for you
right if you've got a value system
that's like crabs in a bucket nobody
stick their head up too high nobody go
too hard nobody dreamed too big it's
like
you've just capped your own potential i
think that there's also just a
wild misconception about
that once you're successful or once you
accumulate wealth that then it's easy
keeping wealth is a lot harder than
earning i i was listening i want to say
kevin hart was on a
um i think it was his last interview
with rogan which was so good if you
haven't heard it do you listen to joe
rogan i do i love joe rogan it's a an
interesting choice for me i understand
but oh man i think he's hilarious i
think he's one of the best interviewers
here
here is the heartbreaking news what he
is the best interviewer right
but he's my competition i must defeat
joe rogan but he is better than me oh my
god i love you
right but i think he's
really good he is and he makes it look
easy so easy and people don't give him
credit for how intelligent he is how
well read he is he is the king i grew up
in theater did you do theater i did a
little um so do you know yes and yes in
improv right i do so he is if you watch
him do an interview that's all he's
doing oh yes and nuclear physics also
like he's so good at just going
um but he did an interview with kevin
hart and kevin hart said what people
don't realize is that it's way easier
to become successful than it is to stay
successful
and i was like
that is the realist
of the real
and when you achieve success you also i
hate to say this because it sounds
pessimistic but it's real you have a
bigger target on your back
now people want to tear you apart
because and and not just like this isn't
we're not saying like oh people want to
tear you apart because like on social no
i'm talking about like people want to
sue you right like that sued me when i
was poor yeah right yeah it's a whole
different thing where you're like what
is happening
that it is so much harder
to be at this level than it was to be
like oh could i get to 5 000 followers
on facebook
which
in saying that i also feel like it's
important
for people who are in that season of
their growth of their entrepreneurial
journey or you know they want to be a
speaker or author or whatever
like enjoy those moments
number one you're learning you're
growing whatever
but i i know if i i feel like if i heard
someone say this when i was younger i'd
be like shut up but
you'll miss
that level of responsibility because it
is phases
nothing to this i'm always telling
people enjoy every phase right every
phase has something that is amazing and
you will look back and be like oh man i
i didn't think i would ever look back
fondly on this time but i actually do
know because of you know xyz 100
but yeah got to enjoy the phases it's
i think that that is that you said
earlier like do people know how hardcore
you are or whatever i think the biggest
thing that people don't understand
is that i'm on the stage
and i'm also running it behind
the scenes
and that's not
i don't want that for me
i wish
i wish that i could just be the one
creating
but i haven't figured out a solution for
it yet i'll let you know when i do
please but i don't think that people
understand that i'm like
marketing the thing
selling the thing and then i am the
thing
which is wild
what i what i really hope people take
away from
your entire personality
is
it's really inspiring to see somebody
build something from scratch to fight
for it to keep dreaming bigger to
um
have
children to have a business
and
just to be enthusiastic and to be so
optimistic it's like it's so
intoxicating but you have to
i mean i guess you have to share the
values part of why i find it so
intoxicating is because i share so many
of your values and so i see you making
something out of nothing out of thin air
pivoting
learning growing pushing yourself like
seeming to
thrive in the uncertainty like you'll
attack it with a smile like
we i wasn't being figurative when i said
we were in a yurt like when that group
of us got together all because of you um
and
we come together and
we're
dreaming and pushing each other and
talking about like how the [__] do you
really pull this off and
that to me like is
so cool and when you you know going back
to that desert island idea when you get
a bunch of people that are
thinking like that and you can insert
yourself which you've created for people
between the books and the events and the
podcasts it's like people can really be
a part of your world and make you one of
the five if we're the average of the
five people we spend the most time with
it's like they can make you one of the
five and
the fact that and look this is
definitely because
my wife and you are so similar in like
just the savage nature of like i'm gonna
be who the [__] i want to be and like
people can try to tear me down all day
if they want but like i just believe in
it and it makes me come alive and so i'm
gonna do it
i feel like this generation is a
vanguard of women who are opening that
door to people and i just want to see
more people like really hype on that i
hope so
i can't tell if this was an outro no or
okay i was like am i allowed to keep i
was like is this was this a wrap up no i
god i hope so
i really um
i hope that when my daughter my
daughter's three i hope that when she is
a grown-up
that
these narratives don't even exist that
it's just you could be whoever you are
and my sons too like what does it mean
to be a man what does it mean to be a
boy what is it like just
that
we get to define that for ourselves i
sincerely hope i just god the world is
so
big and there's room enough
for all of us and i think
i think it's so interesting
that
people
tear down other people not not even me
i'm fine my my skin is very thick like
i'm not worried about it but there are a
lot of people
who will quit
what was a billion dollar idea
who won't ever make the podcast that
would have been better than rogan right
they will stop doing the thing that
actually was genius
because someone was mean to them on
social
how do they solve for that
um the easiest fastest way is you don't
consume social
i don't what happens when a friend
texts them you send a group message and
you say i love you don't tell me this
and when youtube
suggests it to you when you're looking
for divorce advice
i i i laughed and then i sat there and i
was like okay this is two-pointed
what am i meant to learn
in this moment like this feels too much
like the universe i really do live my
life in such a way that i'm like you
believe i'm meant to be
no
but i do believe the universe is talking
to us i believe god the universe
whatever you want to call that is
trying to be like hello
and not even necessarily to say like oh
your destiny is over here in the door on
the left but more to say like
you're missing this
i really like 2020 is is wild it is a
wild
burning down
of a lot of things that needed to be
burned
of we talked about this earlier of
houses built on sand of things that are
falling apart and it's awful and painful
to watch things fall
but that is how you have a rebirth
that is how something new comes out of
it and so
you know in the slowing down of this
year
i've had a lot of conversations with my
girlfriends about like
what have we what
has all of have all of these things been
distracting us from
that we were supposed to be paying
attention to that we were supposed to be
listening to
that like in that moment like the
youtube thing i was like okay what am i
meant to learn in this
am i meant to learn
um
one of the a really powerful thing was i
unpacked
why
does seeing that thing give you anxiety
because that's why i don't consume
social because it will make me anxious
and so for the first time rather than
fighting against it and going like don't
be anxious like that's so stupid like
this is a picture like some person like
who knows like i i go through the
checklist of very rational thought this
was the first time that i ever said
why does it give you anxiety can you
understand why
and then i had a conversation with
myself okay
it gives me anxiety because
i'm a people pleaser what does it mean
for you to be a people pleaser i don't
want people to be mad at me
okay
so you seeing that someone made a
youtube video about you and just so
we're really clear
that video is not about me
you know me you're my friend
that video is about rachel hollis
that video is about a persona or a brand
that that person has made up in their
mind of who i am that's not me that's
not my kid's mom that's not my you know
friends with sammy and beans look that's
not that doesn't touch me because that's
not real
and so it's like okay well
why why why is that triggering for you
okay i don't want people to be um
mad at me
okay well what does it mean for you if
someone's mad so i like literally
therapy session myself sitting here
looking at this i did not watch youtube
video swear cause i was like i don't
hate myself that much but i'm just like
looking at the cover art which was like
a hideous photo of me of course um
and then i unpack
oh
why would it be triggering for you if
someone is mad
well daddy was always mad
and as a little girl you lived in fear
that he was gonna get mad
well what happens if daddy's mad
you're not safe
you don't know what to anticipate
my dad was just
you know would go into violent rages and
um
never laid hands on us but like you're
punching holes in the wall or whatever
like and you're a little girl like
that's
terrifying and so his anger
meant that i was unsafe
and it is the exact same way that it
feels for me
when i see something like that i feel
unsafe why
because that thing is attacking my brand
and my brand affects my business and my
business is the family i have created to
make up for the family that i didn't
have
right
so all these people that work with me
that i love dearly
that thing affects this thing which
means i'm unsafe which means the
family's unsafe
and me
just being able to identify that was
like a light switch that i've not had in
my entire adult life and i was like
oh
this feeling this anxiety is not 37 year
old rachel
because 37 year old me is badass she
knows that that person has their own
problems
this feeling
comes from
me as a little kid
and literally all it took in that moment
i know that i'm gonna sound like a
hippie right now but i just imagined a
conversation with 37 year old me like a
mom
talking to six-year-old me and saying
i got us
nobody is ever gonna make us unsafe
again
never
like we're we're safe we're fine even if
someone's mad it won't affect us and
what we're doing
like that
so that's why i think i saw that that
day
i really do think that you can look at
that opportunity and you can crumble or
you can ask what is this meant to teach
me
so
it is so interesting to me the way that
we can imbue something with meaning so i
don't think the universe is talking to
us
which like you it's like i'm very open
to people's interpretation like whatever
gets you there and it obviously took you
somewhere very powerful so i'm i'm not
in any way shape or form i'm discounting
that or anything um so we don't actually
have to agree and we can still be
friends it's wild i know the internet
should take a lesson right um
what
i find interesting is
like as you were talking i was like ah
there's something in that like the image
of you
protecting a child but that child also
secretly being you like that is what
makes movies so [__] powerful like
those conceptual images are brought to
reality and i've said this i'm actually
embarrassed by this and i'm i even
surprised myself with how often i bring
it up because i'm a little ashamed of it
uh
if i'm alone in the house i can get
scared if lisa is here i'm never scared
because i have i'm prepared to die for
her right so that's like an easy
conversation that i've had and never
come to that and trust me for anybody
wondering i'm also prepared to kill for
her right so um
you know but it's very clear right yeah
uh
because
the imagery is so strong in terms of how
i've crafted my identity not just with
rules and values and beliefs but just
also like snippets of images and you
know me protecting her and standing up
for her it
it creates something really powerful so
anyway this is a long way of getting to
self-awareness like the people that put
the time in to ask those recursive
questions
there are breakthroughs to be had for
sure to understand what's motivating you
it's pushing you i think it's worth
doing the work i had um have you ever
heard of lori gottlieb yeah why she's a
therapist she's an author and a
therapist yes she wrote a book called
maybe you should talk to somebody right
yes
amazing book okay and
in it there
she deals with like those recursive
questions and
as i was reading the book i was really
freaked out by and this is something
that's long freaked me out but just how
much one's childhood plays into your
adulthood and quite frankly her book
touches a lot on trauma okay which i
felt like was the the core of your book
of you know how you rise up past that
how you use your identity to get beyond
that like how you survive in your words
this season like if you're in a
difficult season like this what you have
to do
and
the self-awareness that's required to
like parse the words that laurie used
were integrate you have to integrate
this into your life you have to
integrate why that thing
creates that reaction how you begin to
understand it and how you make it part
of the tapestry like this is a hard
thing but it isn't the sum total of who
i am um my marriage is falling apart but
it's not the sum total of who i am and
so finding a way to have a holistic
narrative that recognizes the things
that didn't go well but also recognizes
and celebrates the things that do go
well yeah and creating that whole human
that to me is
like the juice right but the amount of
work that you have to do to ask those
questions to sit in that space to not
numb out the difficulties like and
that's one of the reasons that i talk so
much about staring nakedly at my
inadequacies because from that i can
actually figure out what's going on
right but if i don't stop to say oh like
that actually did not feel good like why
the [__] is this bothering me so much
and
actually forcing yourself to come to an
understanding and if you can do it by
yourself amazing otherwise
get a therapist right an energy healer
get somebody something somewhere well
and i i will say to be truthful
i
haven't done all of this therapy all of
this work energy healing if you were
like i got a you know shaman in the back
room you can talk you'll be like yes i'm
here for anything
it isn't because
i don't want to lie and say like oh it's
because i want to be like the most
healthy whole person that i can be i'm
going to say this to you because i know
you're going to get it
these feelings are a distraction
i hate being slowed down
i hate
like there is pain in my life that i
will sit with and i will feel my
marriage is ending my children are sad i
am sad
dave's sad like i'm gonna feel that it
is unhealthy for me not to
feel that accept it work through it
process that
anxiety over someone making a youtube
video
is a [__] waste of my time
and i always get over it always but i
hate
that it takes even half an hour i hate
that i have even half an hour or 10
minutes or three minutes of anxiety
about a stranger who does not know me
who made something quite frankly i am
going to give this human the benefit of
the doubt and say that they never in a
million years thought that i would see
it they wanted youtube clicks they
wanted to get attention they wanted
significance they made a thing right
they don't think that that's ever going
to come to me in one of the lowest
moments of my life
because if they did then they're a
monster and that can excuse that too
right
so um i i i'm willing to do the work i'm
willing to dig in let's talk to the
therapist let's figure out this thing
because i
have
a life to live i have a mission i have
work to do i hate the distraction
like damn it like i'm in flow i'm doing
the thing and then this over here like
uh
what a stupid waste of my time you also
said something that made me had an
epiphany
so i read a study recently that said
that women
come nowhere near men when it comes to
negotiation
like men are wildly like the bunch of
studies men are wildly better at women
for negotiating for themselves okay if a
woman has to negotiate her own salary
man has to negotiate he's going to be
wildly better
except
if she is negotiating on behalf of
someone else
not only is she at his level but she
surpasses him yeah by a thousand percent
not really that percentage
but i thought that was so
fascinating
that we are so bad at fighting for
ourselves
but so
incredible at fighting for other people
like you were talking about lisa which
is what made me think of this but i even
am looking at my own experience this
work that i've done with my inner child
and my younger self and her telling me
to imagine that i'm doing it for younger
me
i'm fighting
for a child
literally what i was thinking when
you're right
and i just like have this epiphany i'm
like oh
that's why this is clicking for me for
the first time is i'm truly trying to
heal
a child that i know very well because it
was me
and all of those things that like
i didn't have i didn't like this is
whatever we're just going to keep going
down this inner child thing
i started doing this work with her when
i moved into the house i was going
through stuff when i was little and
i
found a
like a
not oil painting but oil like chalk from
like third grade or something i'd taken
an art class and i remember mrs roll's
art class and um we had to paint uh like
a she showed us a painting we all sort
of did our replica of it
and it's not gonna win an award but it
was pretty good for like a third grader
and
this sounds so sad to even say like out
loud but like my parents don't have
mementos from my childhood
but even as a child
i kept my own
like my art projects my reports my like
i have a box in my house that i started
collecting as a little girl wow because
nobody else would
which is even never thought to do that
right like it's interesting
wow you were journaling that young as
well yeah [__] fascinating i i
thought that too the other day when i
was reading i was like oh okay there's
something here always
like i found lists like i would write
lists like this is what i'm grateful for
or like as a little kid or here are my
goals my goals were like that i wanted
so and so i was a boyfriend i literally
i i should have taken a picture it was
like i will own a house in beverly hills
i will like it was precious but the
point is i found this
picture that i had made as third grader
and i had it professionally framed
and i hung it on the wall in my house
because i do a lot of the i have artwork
that i collect and then i have framed
interestingly enough little kids in like
preschool will create things with finger
paints that look like the greatest
impressionists are like the most amazing
stuff and if you have it professionally
framed people like oh my god who is this
artist
her name's noah
but i had it framed and i put it on the
wall and i swear god i walk out every
day and i'm like
wow someone framed my art
and it's ridiculous because i framed it
sure
but there's something so powerful about
like if you didn't have that
and you spend
so much real life an achiever a three on
the enneagram which is what i am
is created a very specific way
the way that you got attention as a
child was to achieve
and so it taught you that that's how you
should behave in life
and there was something like so
beautiful for me of like
i see you
and like i'm gonna acknowledge this
thing you did
even if nobody else did
you're touching on something which i
find very interesting i'm way out of my
depth i do not know about this but i
have strong intuitions which i will
share and let the internet wait you have
you have intuition
uh and here it is
so i i am
i have a deep conviction that men and
women the 50 that's hardwired is
different now look we're both human and
so the things we have in common are far
more than the things that we don't so
let me just be very clear about that but
to me once you begin to understand what
the
mechanisms are about the way that a
woman approaches the world you can
leverage them to your advantage once you
understand the way that the male brain
approaches the world you can leverage
them to your advantage to do things that
create a better world a more beautiful
world that your own life is more
beautiful whatever but
the way that you're talking about your
art and somebody framed my art it's
possible that there are guys that feel
exactly that way but i will say probably
like when you look at the overlap as you
get to the tails it just probably isn't
the way that a guy would respond i would
not expect to hear that story from a guy
but coming from a woman it feels
completely normal to me and i am well
aware of how much of society influences
us and all that but still
one of the most
extraordinary examples of
how
women
can leverage something in them that that
willingness to fight for those that we
care about how women then can leverage
that in her own life whether it's like
you reflecting back on your own self as
a child and beginning to marry those two
and fight for that little girl and to
show that little girl how far you've
come and maybe it's a gimmick but my gut
is it would work so the example is
there's this book called the gouleg
archipelago it's written by alexander
solzhenitsyn and he was a russian guy
thrown in the gulag tortured
and he was talking about how and
millions of people were killed in the
gulag [__] bananas
and in the book he talks about
men and women being different in torture
and he was like if you heard that
someone was tortured to death he said
odds are it was a woman
because a guy would stop like eventually
he's just like [__] it like you're not
gonna stop so eventually they would just
make [__] up [__] like let me out of
this and he said but women were so
[__] stubborn and they just wouldn't
quit and i don't remember it well enough
to know if he specifically said because
women would [__] protect somebody to
the ends but it's like when you think of
that that was my impression got it and
thinking about my own wife legitimately
even though like i'm probably faster to
be aggressive
once she's triggered good luck like but
for real i remember once there she
she so wouldn't back down on something
that i was like
you're starting to freak me out like how
can you endure this much
pain on this subject stop it doesn't
[__] make sense anymore just let it
go it seems so irrational but then i'll
see that same thing in another context
where it's beneficial and i'm like yo
[__] you be the one because i know
you will [__] go to a point that is
so long past like how much i care about
it i will have stopped long before my
wife would stop
and when i hear stories like that and
it's like look guys have their strengths
and there are things you can [__]
rely on them for and i love that and i
step into that space and it feels good
to me to be relied on like when the
alarm goes off in the middle of the
night
i'm the [__] one that rushes into
danger right i love that i take pride in
that i would turn to other men and
expect them to do the same
say what you will but that feels right
to me there should be in my mind we all
want to belong to some sort of group and
to have there be standards and this used
to be a thing where you would take boys
away from their mothers at a certain age
and you'd [__] take them out into the
wilderness and you'd circumcise them
with a [__] sharp rock and no
aesthetic or you'd make them jump off a
thing and like they you know it's not a
bungee cord it's a [__] rope and they
would just you know
snap tight like four inches off the
ground but
i think that [__] is rad and i know like
we're living in a world where not the
rope circumcision but i don't know i
now now we can really [__] derail but
i it doesn't have to be ropes and
circumcision
but it's like a rite of passage 100 yeah
rite of passage there's all kinds of
studies about how important this is for
kids and how they don't really exist
anymore got to have yeah super important
but anyway that was like one of the
things that hearing about women where i
was like the fact that you guys
give birth they're they're
it seems self-evident that there would
be evolutionary ramifications to that of
pain tolerance of determination of
um attachment to infants i mean like
there's going to be like a whole lot of
knock-on effects to make sure that you
guys will go through that [__] right and
leveraging that in the way that you have
by hanging up your art like to me is
that's why
understanding what this the biological
imperatives are become so useful because
now you can put it to use in your life
yeah but when we're like even i i'm
getting disgusted with myself that i'm
couching everything i'm making all these
[__] caveats
because i just want to know what's true
i don't have a dog in the fight in terms
of what is actually true i just want
people to be able to talk about it
explore it like hey where the [__] are
these delineations what makes for the
most well-rounded well-adjusted human
being this is
a very dramatic question
but do you believe there can ever be
absolute truth
yes there is scientific truth for sure
but it can't be universal truth for
every single person of course you can no
are you ready
yes if you let co2 build up in your
system to too high of a level you will
die
okay universally true yes yes okay
but what i
you were just sort of saying like i
don't i just want to know what the truth
is
yeah but yes okay are you talking
certain sex differences no i'm saying
anything in life oh yeah like there are
yeah of course there's no but this has
become a freaky argument to me where
some people are saying that there is
literally no objective truth do you hear
about the whole hashtag um shutdown stem
yeah [__] crazy so again we're now at
the edge of my understanding and so i
won't speak with any specifics other
than to say that the scientific method
itself came under attack for being
racist that's crazy
that's that's actually crazy and it
holds people back now why would i say
it's crazy i'm using that word very
specifically i will say it is crazy
because in my world view and i think
this is universal people should have a
goal that goal should be both exciting
to them and honorable meaning that it
uplifts humanity okay but everything
should be an echo of that [__] goal
and the only way to achieve your goal is
with a
basically a version of the scientific
method
you know where you want to be you know
where you are you identify the
impediment that stands between you and
your goal you have an informed
hypothesis about how to overcome that
impediment you run tests to see if they
actually work to get you i mean you do
this in business every day it's what i
call the physics of progress it is the
nature of progress itself you must do it
to function in life so when you start
saying that that act of like trial and
error and that there are empirical
results that you can look at that say
yes we either are moving towards our
goal or we are not
to ever assail that there was a whole
argument about um
two plus two equals five
and they gave a whole argument as to why
that was true and i was just like what
are we doing what are we doing yeah what
is like what is the point of this i i
guess i meant they want to believe
people are blank slates that's the point
but you if if people are truly blank
slates then there can be no absolutes
i'm just saying there are absolutes and
we are not blank slates there are
absolutes i guess more than my question
is
the pursuit of the absolute truth
feels
to me
less important than a curiosity
about almost certainly agree but you'd
have to define
you think i'm pursuing absolute truth no
no i just was because you said like i
want to know the truth
but then to me that feels dangerous and
sort of dogmatic
because well because the truth today
there i mean if we look at our history
there were things that we believe to be
capital t truth that we now are like
that was [__] crazy
and the capital t truth that you believe
today could be wildly different tomorrow
so isn't it more powerful to
pursue curiosity to pursue knowledge to
understand to like have information and
come at it from different angles as
opposed to say this is the ultimate
answer for ever and ever i i agree with
you so violently that there's gonna be
bloodshed a hundred percent you're
assault deserving my thing is like
you're you're always trying to find that
thing that moves you closer to actually
understanding the way that the world
works so you can leverage it to create
the things you want right
so
the easy way to say it which you've
heard before i am certainly not making
this up but
strong convictions loosely help i think
that's true yes acting in accordance
with this works right hey tom this this
is actually more true well [__] right
thank you for this information beyond
grateful for that and when you're
obsessed with
that
like the way that i always frame it is
skills have utility knowledge has
utility learning something is not about
checking a box it's not about oh
everybody agrees like i'm sure you've
seen those tests where you can put
people in a group everyone's an actor
except the test subject yeah and you
draw a bunch of lines or whatever and
clearly one of them is longer than the
others and everybody goes yeah they're
all the same length yeah and the
person's like something like
70 of the time people be like yeah
they're all the same length even though
they [__] know right but they're not
but they don't want to look like a fool
they want to conform to what everybody
else is saying and i'm just saying the
ability in that moment to be in the 30
is powerful beyond all recognition yeah
and the person that's like
to your point
um oh god who was it that was like
put in a tower or threatened with death
or did they actually kill him for saying
that the
um earth rotates around the sun right
and not the other way around copernicus
galileo maybe sure that sounds right
um but yeah that's
i love that idea like the power of being
in the 30 percent who has the courage to
say that the line is longer than the
other so desperate to be tested i want
to end up on a like hidden camera show
do you know how many times i play that
game maybe we'll get that for you for
your birthday have you ever seen the
movie the game yes do you know how much
i [__] hate that movie what i
that movie makes me angry in a way that
borders on your rations why why
the man jumps off a [__] building the
whole point
other side of the building and he sees
that his brother's alive i was offended
to my court now you had an emotion i did
and there's a rule in film school if you
love something too much you should watch
it again if you hate something too much
you should watch it have you watched it
again i have not okay i'm comforted by
my hatred
um this has nothing to do with basically
anything but i just want to ask you this
question have you read um robert greene
yes
most if not all of his right um so i
worked i've worked my way through quite
a bit of him in quarantine and i have
not book clubbed this with anyone
let's talk about it 48 laws of power
thoughts very powerful they scare me i'm
not machiavellian at all i love to
connect with people i think that he is
very right for a certain type of person
i think everybody can learn something
from a lot of the rules and you will
find that a lot of the rules apply to
like different people in your life the
more machiavellian they are the more
that more rules will apply to them um
i thought it was a great book apparently
drake is making it into a show on quibby
did he i'm not surprised hip-hop [__]
took to robert greene and like
entertainment industry and you know
because it's a lot it's it's wild though
it's not even a book that i could
comfortably recommend to people because
i read it i felt like i was reading it
more as like an archaeologist or
something of like oh okay that's because
i read that i read seduction did you
read seduction no that's his that one's
why i think that i want to see that
oh i don't know what order it came in
but it's fascinating because it sort of
his idea was
that seduction was and certainly men can
be seducers but the seduction was the
weapon
that was the only weapon that women had
in the earliest forms of civilization
so you look at someone like cleopatra
who
from all accounts was not beautiful
was you know sort of not the oldest
child was not even the second oldest i
think in her family
in no way should she have become queen
and not only did she become queen but
she
was with not one but two of the most
powerful men
in her time period and ruled for
20 years or something like
her story's crazy how how did she do
that so it looks at a bunch of it looks
like she do that seduction
tell me more well so he divides the book
into the different kinds of seducers
so like the ingenue the
um i'm not going to remember any of them
but if you read through them it is
really interesting because you're like
oh i know that person i know this person
this is how you do this thing
it was super fascinating in the first
half and then the second half was like
literally called like
how to
take advantage of your victims and it
was basically like you identify
right like you identify which kind of
seducer you would be
and then
you go like you know 3b and you go over
here and you're like okay this is how
you use your particular type of
seduction to like gain power with other
people and that's when i had to close
the book so i was like this is this take
a dark turn it took a dark turn and i
read mastery too the 48 laws of power
had a dark edge to it which is why i say
is machiavellian i i don't resonate with
that very much but there is powerful
fascinating mastery was amazing human
nature was amazing i've never read that
one [__] fantastic
it's so uh there's a concept this is one
of the books that might be important
enough for me to one day sit down and
write called the physics of being human
okay and like so your brain uses
heuristics and it's pre-programmed with
[__] to make sure that you can you know
function and there's just
basic drivers that it gives you hunger
sex thirst right so there's but there's
more and they get more interesting and
more complicated the more that you
explore it and he goes into a lot of
that stuff like what are the drivers
what are the things that are universal
oh wait i think i did consider this on
amazon and then i like didn't end up i
really enjoyed it it was it was very
interesting the
one recommendation i'll make to anybody
is go watch the book tour for any of
these books you'll get a sense of the
flavor it's more interested than you
know they're dense though robert green
is like a fountain
and i love history is one of my favorite
subjects so i think that's why i
still ended up devouring them because i
love
it's not just him sort of saying these
are my theories it's like using actual
historical these this is the context
this is where it's showing up i want to
talk more about seduction right and as i
wish i could remember forget the book
seduction okay so
i
if i were a beautiful woman okay
i would not remain blind
to my
ability to leverage the male gaze as
they call it i'm not saying that i would
be gross about it
but that to me
is that's power i don't know but i feel
like yeah i mean that's what this book
is all about i feel like this is um
i think the example he uses of this is
like marilyn rowe because in every
single archetype he has of a seducer he
has an actual historical figure that
represents it you might like it
um if it ends with go to column b4
no figure out how to take advantage of
your video
weird turn but um
i don't know i feel like that's like
something a guy would say or i guess it
depends on i don't feel like it's
something a guy would say that you would
if you were a beautiful woman that you
would
be aware of like using
of of your beauty with with men yeah
because i think it depends it's so
there's so many factors right because
that's definitely not
it feels very uncomfortable
for me
to
be going into a world where i'm not
married
interesting like if you want a trip ah
oh my god do you understand that i've
only been on a date with one man
and i married him whoa i'm 37.
i was with dave for 18 years i didn't
even think about that it feels like like
i was thinking this thing you know
people always talk about like what
terrify like do the thing that you're
afraid of and i'm like
that is such a like it feels i don't
even know because i don't even feel like
i was ever really an adult
as a single woman i met him when i was
19.
like just turned 19 not like a season
and so
it makes me
uncomfortable to even
like i um
oh this is so dumb like we were um i've
taken up golf
yes okay
um me and sami and beans decided we were
gonna that's what because that's
something you can do in quarantine where
you like you go to a driving range
you're not near anybody you could like
have a beer and you hit balls
and um we're at the driving range and
this like college age kid was our server
and he's a hundred percent flirting
for a tip like there's no i mean he's
using like lines right like there's no
way that you ladies are that much older
than i am right and even though i know
what he's doing i'm so uncomfortable i'm
like
in a bag like i'm just like putting
myself in a cocoon because i'm so i
don't even know that makes me so
so i definitely would not be the person
who would try and use
my beauty too
interesting yeah and i don't i can't
even
interestingly enough um
some of the gossip coming out of this
experience
was that i have already found
a new person
which
can we talk about this for one second
i am fascinated by the amount of people
including that college age server and i
was on a
production call
with a really big
network the other day and it was zoom
right and there's
10 people on this call and you do these
like meet and greets what do you want to
do what do you want to make blah blah
blah
and they have some idea of my life and
what's going on and you know we're sort
of talking about
some talking about something like the
divorce comes up whatever and this
female executive
of this very big company
says
don't worry
you are going to find love again you
will be married again in no time
and i'm on a
business call
and like you're trying to like impress
these people and i don't want to like
whatever and i was like
yeah i was like okay like i didn't the
first time right and then when she said
something again later in the
conversation like you are you just any
minute like i know it seems like you're
not you're gonna fight and i was like
i'm sorry
i'm sorry i just have to stop
why would you think
why and i know why it's because that's
someone else's reality right but why
would you think that that is on my
agenda at all
that like
the
the second
like that i
have made the hardest decision of my
entire life
not only like that i'm in this and i'm
it's pain and blah but that you think
that the second
that i'm ready i gotta go get married
again
[Music]
why
why would i ever do that again
it it is a it is a thing i'm like i'm
gonna just take note of how many people
are like don't worry
he's out there
like as if that's that's my ultimate
goal now the one thing i'll say is the
words you just said or why would i ever
do that again right i have to imagine
there is a point at which enough time
has elapsed that it at least isn't
something that is an absurd idea oh i
think like
i
i get why you wouldn't want to do it
anytime soon right i cannot imagine
getting married again really yeah wow
and i don't know if that's like hurt
talking um
but why would you
let's talk about it because i was very
prepared to never get married okay and
when i met lisa i did not intend to get
married
and
if
it's interesting if she and i broke up i
don't think i'd ever get married again
either right which is a weird thing to
say from a position of being married but
um that's because i'm
entirely fine by myself right and it is
only because
of that particular human that i was like
actually this is [__] amazing right
like there's this big thing going on
right now i kept seeing it everywhere
that charlize theron did an interview
and it was like shocking because
charlize said that she hadn't been on a
date in five years
and i
saw more of her quote and what she
actually said was like my life is
awesome
and if you
are trying to
take up my time or ask like
you've got to bring
something even more awesome to the table
or why you know she's like a mom she's
like career like business she's like why
would i
and i what i thought was so funny that
what the internet latched onto was not
like strong independent single mom
killing it living her best life it was
like charlize theron
has not been on a date like she's fine
she's everyone calmed down
she's fine interesting it's really
interesting i've never had to spend too
much time thinking about it because i i
only fear two things something happening
to my wife and brain damage those those
are the some funny i am i have a lot of
fear of something happening in my brain
too it's [__] crazy i like the idea
so i'm gonna take horseback riding
lessons i know tom but i got the best
helmet
i got the best helmet on the market like
the the maserati of horse helmets
there's a thing i think it's called a
gator back but you're going to want to
look into it's what stunt men wear when
they have to do falls onto their back
okay
check it out i just i mean i'm not like
jumping horses i'm just like riding
around in a corral but this is a little
like if somebody said that i'm gonna
take up
cheerleading
this is the number one sport that that
leads to injuries that end in paralysis
is cheerleading right number two i think
is horseback riding
like okay it is a it is a childhood
dream okay and it's one of those things
that i always wanted to do and never had
the time and in quarantine i was like
girl you have the time girl ride your
horse girl ride that horse
and
it's one of those things where i'm like
here's here's the here's the truth i'm
afraid of a lot of like physical things
like
skiing you know this because we like
stay in the hotel and drink champagne or
i drink champagne you probably have
green juice or something um
with a group of people in a group
setting that sounded weird for a minute
um so like i'm afraid of things that go
fast i'm afraid of things that are on
like blades i'm afraid
and i'm tired of being afraid of dumb
stuff so i'm like take it all back right
i'm like i want to ride a horse and it
scares the absolute [__] out of me and
so i'm going to buy a really good helmet
which i already did i got the special
pants
and
i'm going to see if i can master this i
actually get that but i do have a same
as you i have a lot of fear of something
happened in my brain because
i almost said the lamest thing what's
here
no it feels too weird
i uh what i i'm just
i love
being alone with my thoughts
like i was reading something the other
day where someone was saying um
there's an author named colleen hoover
who writes fiction she's an incredible
author and she was talking about talking
to her mom
and her mom's really active and has been
her whole life and like fit and works
out whatever and colleen was saying
that
she always feels
guilty or
maybe feels
shame because her mom's always so active
and she is a writer just sits and like
writes all day and she doesn't do any of
the stuff she feels like lazy in
comparison to her mom and she was
telling her mom this and her mom was
like oh
i never stop moving because i can't be
alone with my thoughts
and colleen was like wow that's crazy
because i love my thoughts
and i thought that's me for sure is i
love
love love love just thinking just like
losing time i love being on an airplane
i love journaling i love just
like i said it's like puzzles in my mind
i'm trying to figure out what's gonna
say
between being a fiction author
and enjoying the puzzle part right of
being an entrepreneur right that's where
the thinking because you're not you're
not you're not falling into the
obsessive rumination where you get like
a dark thought and you're just looping
yeah you're problem solving you're
trying to think your way through it or
you're spending time with the character
or like that stuff is is really really
fun i started intermittent fasting
right
and i finally was like oh
this is i get it tom
because i've never had clarity of
thought the way that i have doing
intermittent fasting and it was also the
first time that i could see the
correlation i know this is so obvious
but like it just
the correlation between eating
and brain fog yeah and like how can it
depends on what you what you're eating
is what i mean is like having to pay
attention
to the diet and
um what are you taking in and you ate
that thing and how does it make you feel
because
when i was riding years ago it was such
a stressful process for me that i would
like
garbage like oh i'm gonna go get a
burrito for lunch because i'm trying to
give myself some kind of carrot to
dangle to get through this word count
and then i'm gonna eat that burrito and
not understand that that's why now i
can't even put a sentence down my i have
like crazy brain frog and i'm super
tired and then i'm gonna go jack myself
up on caffeine so that i can tweak back
out to go back to it was like wild
and amy started doing
intermittent fasting and she was like i
really think you'll like this you should
try
and i did it and i literally one of the
first thoughts i had was like oh i get
it tom
dude intermittent fasting is so legit
it's so powerful i intermittent
fast five to seven days a week depending
on the week um
i feel like it's important to say that i
i'm gonna speak for you but i feel like
i can speak i feel like i can say this
neither one of us are doing intermittent
fasting to lose weight
i def it's part of weight management for
me for sure
um but i do it for longevity
for like
the living forever thing
yes which as we said this is different
right
i do want to stay high functioning as
long as humanly possible so it is
twofold for me part of it is weight
maintenance if i were going to go into a
hardcore weight loss phase though i
would still intermittent fast well the
only reason i say it is because i feel
like a lot of times women hear about
intermittent fasting and they get turned
on by it because if you're eating in a
smaller window then you're taking in
less calories and it's a weight loss
thing and that feels like a dangerous
way to approach this this is where i
have no sensitivity my wife is so good
at being like you can't [__] say that
like so my wife struggled with um this
as a kid had an eating disorder and so
she's like you've got to be [__]
careful it is so different i'm so blind
to that i have no internal um
problem like so for instance when i was
really dieting hardcore and i was i
turned to my wife with glee and i was
like i would make an amazing anorexic
and she was like hit the [__] pause
button she was like people get into
really [__] dangerous places and i
said okay well here's the interesting
thing about this
the reason i would never actually become
an anorexic is i understand the
mechanisms of how people go into a dark
place so i said i'll tell you what
you are entirely in control of how lean
i get i said if i ever start looking
unhealthy you say one word and i will
stop on a dime because once i get
focused on a goal i go [__] hard so
this appeared in my life where i had
six-pack habs i really went hard for
this [__]
what did we have to do to have sorry did
i just startle you no no what'd you have
to do to have six-pack abs um well for
real what what did i do or what does one
need to do
because they are unfortunately very
different
you're so weird what answer in whatever
way you would like to because the true
answer of what i did i don't advise to
anybody i did what what would be called
rabbit starvation so
maybe 85 percent of my calories were
from protein okay
zero carbohydrates i mean i almost
didn't even have vegetables
essentially eating boiled chicken and a
little bit of steamed broccoli
only thing i would put on it is salt
that was i would eat two meals
that was it
and it worked i got lean as [__] how
many calories were you taking in do you
know were you eating like a lot of
chicken at least no no no i was probably
taking in
1500 calories a day holy crap it was
miserable
i was doing strength training and cardio
i was doing like one to two hours of
cardio you just wanted to see if you
could get it i did it for two years i
think a lot of us needed to hear that
that's what it takes because we want no
it doesn't take that that's why i said
there are two ways to answer this
question okay tom was a [__] okay did
it the dumbest possible way okay don't
[__] do it like this okay but
i was a hardcore [__] i
went i stuck with it i did it i got lean
as [__] it was awesome right i
looked so good it was so cool oh my god
you would stand in the mirror in your
underwear you'd like take pictures of
your abs it was awesome okay not gonna
lie okay and then it got to the point my
wife pulled me aside and said you no
longer have a personality
and you need to start eating again and
you're now spilling into you don't look
lean you look skinny okay and so i was
like cool i said you say one word and
and i'll normalize out and so then that
i stopped being that hardcore i still
look great but filled out a bit more
actually thought it looked better and
then i started learning about how to do
it the right way the right way to do it
would be intermittent fasting
you're going to be doing a high fat diet
moderate protein and only the only
carbohydrates you're going to take in
just to wrap that like avocado perfect
couldn't imagine a better fat source
than avocado but you're also going to
have some red meat if you're so like all
these like like the rock you know i'm
going to give him as my example like
amazing he's eating he's not eating
avocado you think that's what he's
eating no but can we think he's doing
steroids he is you can't get that big
you can't get that big
how about this he has done steroids
extensively at some point in his life
for sure and
he's amazing come on the show i take it
all back rock i'll never bring it up
again but he he is incredible i'm not
taking anything away taking steroids
does not make you yeah it's not like
someone else
[__] [__] right
and being supplemented with an exogenous
form of testosterone or something along
those lines allows you to get that big
and is it that it gives you more energy
to work out you repair the muscle faster
oh interesting okay so that is and i'm
sure it has a whole host of other
benefits from allowing you to contract
your muscles so i'm making that up but
i'm sure there are things like that um
they terrify me exogenous substances
terrify me so i've never [__] them so
i've never researched much about it but
there's just a certain size that once
somebody's north of that size right um
almost and in fairness i don't know that
he takes him of course of course
guessing based on just how big he is
right um
but
when you work like michael phelps could
eat whatever he could eat like a
trash compactor you're out putting that
much the rock obviously works out
extraordinarily hard right
so i had this epiphany about him the
other day that was like mind blowing to
me and you're going to be the seventh
person i've told and nobody's impressed
by it but please be
do you follow him on social the rock
yeah uh i almost don't ever go on social
okay good it's garbage you shouldn't
do you know about his cheat meals yes
okay so on sundays he does these massive
cheat meals whatever it's this whole
thing i've seen photos right
and for the longest time i have tried
i'm like why sunday and if you know the
answer already don't answer because
you're going to be like the kid that
tells you right
right i'm like why not friday night why
not saturday like sunday feels so not
fun sunday's like my least favorite day
whatever and then i had this epiphany
i'm like oh my gosh the rock is a
freaking genius
because monday is a natural reset cue
truth so if i had a treat meal on friday
night
there is a solid chance that on saturday
i'm going to be like
maybe i need some chips because it's the
weekend like i signaled something to my
brain but if you had that on sunday
night
monday morning even if you're like yeah
a slob
most people on monday morning try again
let's see if i can convince you to do it
on saturday okay tell me saturday so
saturday has a natural party vibe no
matter what you've just been trained so
much that's why having a monday off does
not feel as good as having a friday off
friday feels like wow this is like an
extra party day friday's already got a
good vibe the whole rest of the world's
in sync with that
on a saturday to be like yo my saturday
is my big cheat day and this is what my
wife and i used to do
we would starve ourselves during the
week legitimately not good again i'm not
encouraging people to do this it's just
disclaimers we would starve ourselves
during the week and then we would go so
ham on a saturday
it was comical one time my wife woke up
and i was gone and she called me she's
like where are you and i'm like i'm
waiting outside the cheesecake factory
for it to open so that i can get
cheesecake because the second she's
awake we can start eating so i wanted to
make sure i was there the second they
opened so i could get it and get home as
quickly to when she woke up assuming oh
my lord and we would just go [__]
crazy and because it naturally feels
like a party day you're eating and then
quite frankly on sunday it's like you're
so full from the previous day you
probably feel a little sick
well my thing is i typically do my long
runs on sundays okay and so i can't do a
saturday night craziness because then
i'm sabotaging sunday sunday right
but if you run
10 miles
sunday then you're like so hungry and
it's the best
there is something to be said for that
because your muscles will be screaming
for the glycogen right i just find
sunday it's hard for me to stay in that
party vibe like i work usually a lot on
sunday do you yeah sunday's like for
sure my day of rest saturday is my day
of rest i still work but just not a lot
so i have three hours so one i wake up
very early my wife likes to draw so on a
saturday let's say i wake up at 4 a.m
and then my wife is going to draw until
10 or 11 a.m so during that time i do
whatever the hell i want so that's when
i write or
you know i'm working on a comic book or
something like that um so
that's i'm keeping trump to you i'm
sorry no no please i was just gonna say
it's
insane how talented she is yeah my wife
is ridiculous it's like it's not like a
oh it's cute like you drew a thing right
because we're you know walking through
the house and she has stuff and i'm just
like
i see it on social but i like it's
insane insane like you just saying like
oh she's gonna draw for five hours and
then you see what she's creating you're
like yeah that probably takes a while oh
god it takes her a very long time she'll
put 20 hours into a single drawing wow
and they are incredible what does she do
with them
they're often gifts for people i need to
ask for one my birthday's in january
[Laughter]
uh yeah they're often gifts for people
we put them up around the house
and then she didn't draw for a very long
time yeah so we don't have some huge
back catalog i mean she must have taken
close to 15 years off wow yeah that's
wild
i interrupted you i'm sorry no please we
were talking about on saturdays
she's drawing you can do whatever you
want during those hours yeah so i just i
end up working um a lot during that time
so that my my day of rest even though i
work a little bit is saturdays
when you're working
break it down for me percentage-wise
what is like
creating is how much time during the
week or during the weekend it's very
different ooh
tell me off so
i
monday through friday if i'm awake i'm
either working or working out
that's a rule
now the technical truth is actually what
yeah so
it's technical i'll give you the real
answer because it's so much easier to
say the other way sunday night through
friday night i'm either working or
working out okay so around 7 or 8 p.m on
friday i stopped working and now it's
the weekend
and so
then it's
basically any work that i do on the
weekends unless i have a deadline or
something big coming up it's i'll still
work but it's only things i want to do
okay so um it might be the new
comic that i'm doing i'm not under any
deadlines i'm in the world building
phase i'll do that
on the weekends if i want to watch a
movie or something which for me is still
like
in the realm of things i need to get
good at and have a core competency for
our business but i call it hard work no
but it's like in that vein so i might
watch a movie or watch anime or
something a long story about why that's
meaningful
but um
the
work during the week is 60 overhead 40
[__] that i love
um i would love to flip it or even go
less but that's the reality on the
weekends it's only stuff that i love but
is it creating are you in mostly
creation phases mostly okay on on the
weekends no no during the week so during
the kids figuring
it's copywriting it's um figuring out
what's broken where going through
spreadsheets looking at data finances
um dealing with legal [__] contracts my
nightmare yeah i mean it's my nightmare
unfortunately i've tried desperately to
make my wife the ceo and she just
refuses right even after getting her to
read rocket fuel which thing right yes
such a good one uh and it is her
personality yeah that isn't what she
wants to do right so right
it's always curious like how other
people break it down what's your
breakdown like
um
i
am
i work monday through friday and i'm
pretty hardcore about that
um
because i have kids and
and you're trying to keep the weekend
free
yeah um there was a time you know i
talked about this in the first book
there was a time where i i really
was a workaholic and i wasn't present
and if i had died back then i would have
said that i was not proud of myself
i might have been successful in terms of
finances but i wasn't successful as a
mom
or as a human
i just was like i was really unhealthy
and i was chasing the wrong things what
does a healthy human look like
to me it looks like um
i this sounds again like a hippie but it
feels like
i know who i am
um
i'm not
i'm like
living my life in a way that feels like
this is the life that i want to live
um
it's because unhealthy for me is
obsessing over chasing the wrong things
um
ignoring your kids so that you can work
you know all day long on some stupid
crap that doesn't actually matter
um
yeah i just don't think i
i was doing it very well back then and
the honest truth was it's
really
it comes naturally to me
being an entrepreneur and it didn't come
naturally to me being a mom and so i
gravitated to the one
like addiction right the whole thing
with addiction is that it can numb out
a pain that you feel
and being an entrepreneur absolutely
numbed out the fact that i didn't i felt
like i was failing over here
how did you
write that ship
i had to understand what was going on
um well honestly i got
sick
like my body it's very i am hyper aware
of this that i will not experience
stress and then my body i will not
experience stress and my body will just
shut down so i got bell's palsy i've had
it three times yeah
yeah i've had bell's palsy three times
gotten i lived with vertigo for a year
yeah what yeah that was that year with
vertigo it was like the final straw i
saw every doctor had brain scans thought
i had a tumor
um finally went to see a
what do you call like not a natural path
but like a
holistic holistic doctor um and i talked
to him and he what it's the only way to
fly right and he just sort of like tell
me all the things and i saw him other
things and he was like oh this is not
physical at all this is all emotional
stuff
and i did not know
i was i was before any like any personal
development any growth anything
overwhelmed from work or is it the
stress of like i
i don't feel as bonded to my kids as i
feel like i should yeah all of it i love
how much you've talked about that that's
so [__] powerful all of it of like i
am
i feel like i'm failing what what i say
a lot now i always say this to moms
because i don't think anyone says this
is
i did not like being a mom
at all i loved my kids i didn't like
being a mom
and i thought i was a monster do you
like being a mom now love it what'd you
do how did you like overcome my kids got
older that's it that's just that's a
face that's why i say it is i don't love
babies and i love like your babies and
toddlers are great they're cute i have a
toddler but it's not a phase in
parenting that i like i'm not that mom i
know moms who are that mom it's not me
my
two older boys are 13 and 12.
it is the
the greatest joy in my life they're so
funny they're so interesting they're
like little weirdos they're like coming
into their own they have funny stuff
like i just
i'm obsessed i'm obsessed with my kids
and what i didn't know
was that it was an age thing
so i'm a better mom for kids who are a
little bit older once you turn like four
which is my daughter's three yes i know
send a letter um
that's when it really to me starts to
feel like okay that's an age that i
click with um
but because i never heard another mom
say that
i thought
you're the worst you're so awful like
you don't like this
which means you don't like your kids and
it was this whole shame spiral and
really it was just i needed time that's
all it was um but all the stuff that
came from you know getting sick and
whatever remember i told you
i wouldn't have gone to therapy to be a
whole healthy happy person i went to
therapy because the vertigo
was slowing me down
and i got a right i gotta move and this
is exactly why i dealt with my anxiety
right this is now [__] up my business
right i got stuff to do i don't have
time for this
so
took a lot of it took a lot of work but
i am hyper aware that
i'm i am go to such high capacity of
like get it done like i was a an event
planner
you're and i was planning weddings that
were 750 000 million weddings like los
angeles yeah crazy like get some get an
egyptian bride over here let's spend all
the money it's a multi-day affair like
wild money wild money
if
the cake falls over
the kitchen catches on fire the bride's
dress splits like that
there is no option but to handle that
there is no choice that was some of the
hardest years of my life and such
incredible grace under pressure because
there isn't an alternative and i see
that manifest in my life now there's
plenty of alternatives in my life now
but i don't see them i there's always a
way we will figure this out like i've
had every freaking disaster you can
imagine happen on a wedding day
and always had happy clients because i
would always tell myself like you have
until the end of this reception to make
this right no matter what happen you
have the end until the end of this
reception to make this right you can
bring this back around like figure it
out find a way
so what's the craziest thing you had to
deal with
one
time um
in the front of the room they start
giving the toasts
in the back of the room
bride's grandfather falls over
and
within seconds like someone else at the
table who was a doctor is doing heart
compressions oh [__] grandpa's flat
lining in the back of the room
now here's what's wild
my job as a wedding planner is to
protect the bride and groom from
catastrophe it's like i have to the end
of the reception to get him back to life
i was like
no one will know this is happening wow
so in the front of the now he's in the
back and everyone's turned looking at
the speeches
and so i had a rule in my company never
let them see you run and i still believe
in this so i tell everybody on our team
if you are at an event and you see
someone on staff running even if they're
running in excitement you're going to
assume something bad's happening so my
rule was never let them see you run and
grandpa falls over someone's doing chest
compressions mouth to mouth and the only
people who have noticed are the people
at his table
and i'm like uh
keep whatever and so i tell my sister
i'm like go to the front tell them to
call 9-1-1 like
and she takes off at a dead sprint and
i'm watching she takes off and it didn't
spread and then immediately i see her
like she hits a force field and she
starts walking and the joke was later i
was like danielle if someone's having
someone's dying you're allowed to arrive
so um i said
tell them to call 9-1-1 and ask if
they'll come with their sirens off and
light's off because you can do that
right
and they came up
got him on a i s hand to the heavens got
him on a girl like we got him out of the
room like lift grandpa take him out got
him out of the room got him on a gurney
off to cedar sinai
nobody knew
whoa and he lived
mazel tov
[Laughter]
there's always a way and and later you
know because they had sort of like
sensed i went up to the bride and after
he was in the thing and she said is
everything okay and i said
grandpa's okay but he did um
we had a we had a little moment and he
would take him to the hospital and he's
great and aunt helen's there with him
now and it's all gonna be okay and what
he wants most is for you to go do
this you know let's go let's let's go
the first dance let's go do it she had a
great reception
wow
because i i never had it happen but i
heard stories like there was a i hate to
say this i'm like what if this person
just randomly is watching but there was
um i had a friend who was a wedding
planner who
during the first dance
uh during the horror at a wedding
um
the groom's mother
dead during the first dance oh god
and
you're done
your anniversary is ruined the wedding's
done like everything
everything
everything and so unless it was
something like that
i thought that my job was everything
that was possible to to keep it to make
it okay for them
and i have
my lord have i had some experiences but
you just keep like there's a way
you get them a glass of champagne you're
like we're fixing this it's fine in fact
if you're good at your job they never
even know that the kitchen caught on
fire
there's always a way
until the reception's over
perfect place to end right
rachel
tom this was so fun yeah my longest
interview ever though
and i could have kept going oh my gosh i
kept thinking of like i had a list of
things i wanted to talk to you about but
i'll i'll just send you guys more
struggles later right no we don't have
to do it on camera should not be a lot
of fun i'd love to have you back from
seriously rad i appreciate you having me
on 100 thanks for being here
guys gotta read the new book it is
absolutely fantastic i didn't see that
coming it is amazing you guys will love
it it is another smash it is all her the
personality that has made her the phenom
that she is but looking at trauma and
how you get past it and there's always a
way till the end of the reception right
if you haven't already be sure to
subscribe and until next time my friends
be legendary take care
what's up impactivist as you guys know
my mission in life is to provide the no
bs instruction manual for success and to
that end we've launched our platform
impact theory university our goal with
itu is to provide you with curriculum
that will help you take your career
business or personal development to the
next level so regardless of your end
goal itu is designed to provide you with
the universal principles and tactics of
success that will propel you forward so
whether you want to build a fortune 500
company advance quickly up the ranks at
your company become a more effective
parent or partner or simply get unstuck
there are core principles that apply and
that's where impact theory university
comes in but to be clear itu is not
another podcast or conversation with an
influencer you can get all of that for
free right here on our youtube page
instead it is structured education
delivered in a compelling format and
paired with social support and
accountability we offer two tracks
business and mindset regardless of which
track you choose you'll gain access to a
library of all of our pre-recorded
classes as well as two hours of live
teaching per month where you'll have the
opportunity to engage with me ask
questions and meet others in the
community every class also comes with an
actionable worksheet designed to help
you take the immediate action that is
required to make any new skill stick and
last but certainly not least as a
student enrolled in itu you'll get
access to an exclusive online community
of other like-minded individuals who
will help you study the content work
through all of your goals and keep you
accountable at all times itu pricing
starts as low as 47 dollars a month for
the mindset track and 97 a month for the
business track there's also a 50
discount if you buy the whole year up
front and additional discounts if you
sign up for both mindset and business
when you bundle all of the discounts
together the cost drops to roughly 80
cents a day i think itu truly is the
best content we have ever made but if
you sign up and don't agree that it's
worth say 10 times what you paid just
take advantage of our no questions asked
30 day money back guarantee i don't want
any of us to get paid unless we're
delivering disproportionate value so
trust of the refund process will be
absolutely hassle free and if this
sounds like something that would help
you move forward in your life but you
can't afford it we do have a scholarship
program that you can apply for that
provides free access to those in need
right everybody if you want to take
advantage of this and make it
dramatically important in your life sign
up today the link is in the description
or you can go directly to
university.impacttheory.com i look
forward to seeing you on the inside my
friends and until then be legendary take
care
[Music]
i didn't want to be in that place
anymore and i think at the time i had
convinced myself that if i could just
get to a different city i think a lot of
us do this we think if i could just move
to new york or if i could just get to la
or if i could if only i could lose you
know 50 pounds or if only i could have
this or you you think that your
happiness is dependent on something
outside yourself